The event was investigated by the Irish Air Accident Investigation Unit (AAIU). The 63 year-old Aircraft Commander was recorded as having 7,264 hours total flying experience which included 2,354 hours on type. It was established that with the First Officer acting as PF and the aircraft climbing through FL170, the pilots had both detected the presence of “a strange odour/ fumes” on the flight deck. The No. 1 engine ITT indication was noted to be “significantly higher” than that for the No. 2 engine, although it was within allowable limits. Soon after this, the senior member of the Cabin Crew advised that the forward toilet smoke alarm had activated and that there was smoke visible near the passenger cabin ceiling. The aircraft was levelled at FL 190 and both pilots donned their oxygen masks. By this time, smoke was also evident on the flight deck and “observed to be emanating from panels to the left of the Commander’s seat”. A ‘PAN’ was declared to ATC and an immediate descent made to FL 100. After considering the situation and diversion options, the Commander informed ATC that it was their intention to divert to Dublin. The situation stabilised and the diversion was completed without any further complications with the First Officer continuing as PF. After landing, the Commander decided that an immediate evacuation was not necessary and after a visual external check of the aircraft by the AFS, the aircraft taxied to its parking stand and the passengers disembarked normally. An AAIU Inspector then spoke with the flight crew. When a Company engineer tasked with investigating the problem subsequently started the No. 1 engine with the intention of carrying out a low power engine run, “he was alerted to a large amount of smoke coming from an engine vent and the drain mast” on that engine and shut it down immediately. Inspection disclosed a large quantity of oil in the engine ducting and a very low oil quantity indication. Borescope inspection was used to trace the fault to oil leaking from a Handling Bleed-Off Valve (HBOV) on the No. 1 engine and it was removed and sent for overhaul. It was noted that the removed Pratt & Whitney Canada P&W PW150A engine had been installed in the No. 1 position on G-FLBB in March 2011 having previously accumulated 820 hours and 5233 cycles since new. At the time of removal, the engine had reached 13,001 hours and 14,583 cycles. Inspection of the engine at the overhaul facility to which it was sent found that the No. 4 Bearing Key washer had fractured and that as a direct consequence, the “high unbalance of the HP rotor resulted in distress of the carbon seals resulting in oil leak into the gas path”. The Operator advised that including this event, there had been four unscheduled engine removals on its DH8-400 fleet in 2015 attributed to “oil smell/fumes” and a further six attributed fractures of the No. 4 Bearing Key washer, of which two had been