The EUROCONTROL MSAW Specification describes the minimum requirements for the development, configuration and use of MSAW in Europe. The Specification exists only as the final draft version while the Guidance Material has a ‘released’ status. Currently, there is no plan to undertake any further development of the Specification. EUROCONTROL Specification for Minimum Safe Altitude Warning Draft Comprehensive guidance material to assist in implementing the EUROCONTROL Specification for Minimum Safe Altitude Warning covers the full MSAW lifecycle: Definition of objectives. Implementation or change. Tuning and validation. Operation and monitoring. The MSAW Guidance is provide with several appendices to support ANSPs in the implementation of MSAW. EUROCONTROL Guidance Material for Minimum Safe Altitude Warning Released Appendix A: Reference MSAW System: Detailed technical explanation of typical implementation details of MSAW with emphasis on parameterisation and performance optimisation. Optimisation concepts are also covered in detail. Appendix B: Safety Assurance: A set of three documents that can be used as starting point for MSAW safety assurance work in a particular local context. Appendix B-1: Safety Argument for MSAW System: This document describes a possible initial Safety Argument.. Appendix B-2: Generic Safety Plan for MSAW Implementation: Describes what safety assurance activities should be considered at each lifecycle phase, who should do them, and what the criteria for success are.. Appendix B-3: Outline Safety Case for MSAW System: Addresses in detail the assurance and evidence from the System Definition stage and outlines the likely assurance and evidence for the later stages.. Appendix C: Cost Framework: Appendix C: Cost Framework for the Standardisation of MSAW: A set of guidelines for users of the Cost Framework (an Excel model) to assess the economic impact of the standardisation of Minimum Safe Altitude Warning for individual ANSPs.. Appendix C: Supporting Spreadsheet: Supporting Excel spreadsheet for the Cost Framework model.. Appendix D: Case Study: A set of two documents describing the (partial) application of the optimisation and safety assurance guidance material in a demanding environment. Appendix D-1: Enhancement of MSAW for Skyguide. Identifies potential solutions for extending MSAW coverage throughout skyguide’s area of responsibility.. Appendix D-2: Functional Hazard Assessment of MSAW for Skyguide. Describes the Functional Hazard Assessment of the identified potential solutions for extending MSAW, performed as an initial step of safety assurance activities..