The arrival of the Single European Sky (SES) regulations and the transposition of ESARRs into EC legislation presented the States with the issue of “Double Regulation”. SRC set up the Double Regulation Ad-Hoc Group (DRAHG) to address this issue, and the Group’s recommendations were agreed by the Provisional Council in November 2007 and by the Single Sky Committee (SSC) in January 2008. The Provisional Council also invited the EUROCONTROL Safety Regulation Commission (SRC) to further develop those recommendations that concern ESARRs and return to the Permanent Commission for approval at an appropriate time. The recommendations include: - In the case of ESARR 1, an amendment at achieving full alignment with the text of its transposing regulation, Commission Regulation (EC) 1315/2007, thus removing potential double-regulation issues with regard to safety oversight in EUROCONTROL Member States where EC regulations are directly applicable. For EUROCONTROL Member States who are not members of the EU, ESARR 1 provides the means to ensure the implementation of an appropriate ATM safety oversight function. SRC is to submit proposals in that regard to the EUROCONTROL Permanent Commission in December 2009. The publication of Commission Regulation (EC) 482/2008 transposing ESARR 6 into EC law has opened the door to the implementation of a similar course of action to apply the recommendations of DRAHG to ESARR 6. Additionally, actions are also foreseen as regards ESARRs 2, 3, 4 and 5. In these cases, in accordance with the DRAHG recommendations, the process to achieve a single text for ESARRs 2, 3, 4 and 5 with their corresponding EC rules is to be initiated by means of the introduction of measures by the EC to address the DRAHG recommendations related to those rules. The associated proposals for amendment of ESARR will be submitted to the PC in due course. It should also be noted that with the expansion of the EASA role to ATM/ANS, new Implementing Rules will be developed on the basis based on the SES safety-related provisions which transposed the ESARRs into EC law. These new Implementing Rules should be put in place by 31st December 2012. This will provide the opportunity to address the DRAHG recommendations.