had to satisfy two separate conditions prior to making a turn and there was no way of ensuring aircraft would turn at the same distance from the airport so lateral separation could not be assured. The ground tracks of both aircraft showing loss of lateral separation resulting from the different positions where the required right turn could be commenced. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that in the last 10 years, 6 of the 8 losses of separation reported to the ATSB involving aircraft cleared on a SID where a following aircraft has climbed faster than the aircraft ahead were on Sydney Airport departures and 5 involved the DEENA 7 SID. Airservices Australia informed the Investigation that during airspace re-planning in the Sydney area necessary because of the opening of the new Western Sydney International Airport expected in 2026, the DEENA 7 SID has been redesigned to remove the conditional requirements of the current procedure. Two Contributing Factors were formally documented based on the findings of the Investigation, one of which was classified as a Safety Issue and is identified as such: When clearing two aircraft on the DEENA 7 standard instrument departure, the controller incorrectly assessed that they would have similar climb performance and became distracted and did not detect the relatively higher climb performance of the departing Airbus A330 aircraft. This resulted in the A330 turning inside the preceding Boeing 787 and a loss of separation standards with that aircraft.. The DEENA 7 standard instrument departure has no designed positive separation assurance method, making it susceptible to loss of separation occurrences. [Safety Issue]. Safety Action taken in respect of the identified Safety Issue was advised as follows: Airservices Australia has redesigned the DEENA 7 SID to remove the 2 conditional requirements of the procedure. The changes are planned to be part of the first implementation package for Western Sydney International (Nancy-Bird Walton) Airport, although at the time of writing the timeframe was unknown. The ATSB stated in response that “as no timeframes for the implementation could be provided, it will continue to monitor the identified Safety Issue and provide public updates online". In Conclusion, a Safety Message based on the Investigation Findings was as follows: Maintaining separation in high traffic terminal areas, such as Sydney, requires that both controllers and flight crews remain vigilant, maintain open communications, and use the available systems and tools to minimise the risk of errors. When sequencing departures, controllers should consider a number of factors, including how the flight duration (and the associated fuel load), will likely affect aircraft climb performance. Standard Instrument Departures are designed to expedite the safe and efficient flow of air traffic operating from airports through the use of specific routings, levels, speed restrictions and waypoints. Where a SID, with limited designed separation assurance is used, it is important that air traffic controllers regularly monitor individual aircraft performance rather than rely on expected flight characteristics. The Final Report was released on 3 March 2023.