There are some barriers that are not affected by transponder failure. The most notable of them are: Demand and capacity balancing, including multi-sector planning, is based upon schedules and flight plan data as opposed to track data. Therefore, the impact of an incorrectly operating transponder on flow control and sector loading is classified as negligible.. Current flight plan data (flight plans, estimates, revisions, etc.). This data is used for procedural control and may therefore be available regardless of surveillance data.. Primary radar data is an independent source of surveillance information. Although its availability is often reduced due to the decreasing number of operating primary radars and does not provide level information, primary radar data may be used to provide horizontal separation even if no radio contact can be established with the aircraft experiencing transponder failure.. Traffic planning tools (e.g. MTCD, AMAN) use transponder-based information to update predictive tools and form tracks, so would be negatively impacted by a transponder that is not operating correctly. However, as these are prediction tools, an error at this stage is unlikely to lead directly to a loss of separation. Nevertheless, it may impact the planning controller’s task of detecting future conflicts using planned trajectories, leading to incorrect or no action taken to resolve the potential conflict at an early (strategic) stage. Air traffic controllers use a variety of tools to provide safe and efficient traffic flow. Planning in advance is essential for achieving these ATM goals. Most tools designed to be used for this purpose are created assuming that failure of some equipment (especially the transponder) is a rare event and have no built-in features to mitigate such an event. As a result, the tools are only partially effective and controller workload is increased significantly even by only one aircraft experiencing transponder failure. Transponder failure has various effects on safety nets, based on their logic. STCA – a complete (or mode C) failure is usually handled by ignoring the aircraft during STCA calculations. This is done in order to reduce false alarms (which tend to reduce the confidence in any system).. APW – depending on the area in question (e.g. in case it spans from ground level to unlimited) it is possible that an alert is triggered even if no altitude information is available provided that a stable track is established.. MSAW relies on mode C information to operate. Therefore, intermittent, corrupt or missing information about the aircraft level would prevent it from operating correctly. Depending on local implementation it is possible to mitigate this by manual input of the aircraft level.. In any case, a complete loss of transponder data would render safety nets useless if no primary radar data is available.