The SNOWTAM message consists of a heading and a main body. The heading provides the usual AFTN data (priority, originator, addresses, etc.). The main body of a SNOWTAM comprises two sections: Aeroplane performance calculation section, containing 8 items (A-G). When reporting on more than one runway, repeat the information in the aeroplane performance calculation section from the date and time of assessment for each runway before the information in the situational awareness section. Item A. Aerodrome location indicator (the four-letter location indicator according to ICAO Doc 7910). This item is mandatory. Item B. Date and time of assessment (eight-figure date/time group giving time of observation as month, day, hour and minute in UTC). This item is mandatory. Item C. Lower runway designator number (e.g. 09, 04L, etc.). Only one runway designator is inserted for each runway and always the lower number. This item is mandatory. Item D. Runway condition code for each runway third. Only one digit (0-6) is used for each runway third (e.g. 6/4/5). The runway condition code depends on the type and depth of the contaminant and the outside air temperature. Higher numbers indicate better braking action. This item is mandatory. Item E. Per cent coverage for each runway third. This information is provided only when the runway condition for each runway third (Item D) has been reported as other than 6 and there is a condition description for each runway third (Item G) that has been reported other than DRY. In this case, values 25, 50, 75 or 100 for each runway third are given (e.g. 75/100/50). When the conditions are not reported, "NR" is used instead of numbers. Item F. Depth of loose contaminant for each runway third in millimetres (e.g. 10/12/10). When the conditions are not reported, "NR" is used. This information is only provided for: standing water slush wet snow dry snow Item G. Condition description for each runway third. This item is mandatory. When the conditions are not reported, "NR" is used. The following words and phrases are used: COMPACTED SNOW DRY SNOW DRY SNOW ON TOP OF COMPACTED SNOW DRY SNOW ON TOP OF ICE FROST ICE SLUSH STANDING WATER WATER ON TOP OF COMPACTED SNOW WET WET ICE WET SNOW WET SNOW ON TOP OF COMPACTED SNOW WET SNOW ON TOP OF ICE DRY (only reported when there is no contaminant) Item H. Width of runway to which the runway condition codes apply. This item is included if the value in metres is less than the published runway width.. Item A. Aerodrome location indicator (the four-letter location indicator according to ICAO Doc 7910). This item is mandatory.. Item B. Date and time of assessment (eight-figure date/time group giving time of observation as month, day, hour and minute in UTC). This item is mandatory.. Item C. Lower runway designator number (e.g. 09, 04L, etc.). Only one runway designator is inserted for each runway and always the lower number. This item is mandatory.. Item D. Runway condition code for each runway third.