system had captured the Brisbane ILS GS so that the AP began to climb the aircraft in order to intercept and track the glideslope beam. At this time, the aircraft was about 115 nm south of the Brisbane ILS GS transmitter and 29 nm to the right of the extended runway centre line. Although the ILS LOC signal was sensed, it was not captured because the aircraft position placed it outside the criteria for capture, which depend on both intercept angle and closure rate. It was calculated that the altitude at which an aircraft could be considered on the ILS GS at that range from Brisbane should be about FL 488, but it was found that because of atmospheric refraction of the GS beam, the actual ‘on slope’ altitude had been FL 398. A scale diagram depicting the vertical flight profile is provided below. It was noted that according to the flight crew, prior to their calculated top of descent point i.e. prior to the expected climb, they had carried out the prescribed FCOM pre-descent procedure and further noted that this required the crew to: Review the system annunciator lights (PF).. Recall and review the system annunciator lights (PNF).. Verify VREF on the APPROACH REF page (PF).. Enter VREF on the APPROACH REF page (PNF).. Set the RADIO/BARO minimums as needed for the approach (Both Pilots).. Set or verify the navigation radios and course for the approach (Both pilots).. Set the AUTO BRAKE select switch to the needed brake setting (PNF).. Verify HUD settings and modes as required (Both pilots).. Do the approach briefing (PF).. Call “DESCENT CHECKLIST” (PF).. The Investigation noted that neither Qantas nor Boeing were aware of any previous ILS GS capture during cruise flight and that Qantas had re-examined their data on 200,000 737 flights and had not found any previous occurrences where the APP mode was armed with the AP engaged and the aircraft had unexpectedly captured a valid ILS signal. The prevalence of lack of crew awareness of modes and AP status was reviewed by the Investigation and it was noted that both were longstanding problems in aircraft with higher levels of automation. The Investigation noted that the ATSB occurrence database for the period 2010-2014 included six events where an AP was either not engaged when intended or was inadvertently engaged with an inappropriate flight mode selected and a further 18 occurrences where incomplete flight mode awareness had been identified and incorrect or inappropriate mode selections made. In respect of AP status awareness, the Investigation also noted its likely role in two fatal accidents to Boeing 737-800s, the Kenya Airways' 2007 accident soon after take off from Douala and the Ethiopian Airways' 2010 accident soon after take off from Beruit. It was considered that whilst occasional mode selection errors are inevitable, the investigated event was of interest because it was not clear why selection of the APP mode and the consequent arming of the ILD GS and VOR/LOC approach modes had not been detected