The Australian Transport Safety Board (ATSB) investigated the event making use of successfully downloaded recorded flight data. Both members of the flight crew had significant experience on the Boeing 737 type - in the case of the Captain, nearly 15,000 of his 17,770 total flying hours and in the case of the First Officer, 6670 of his total 10,230 flying hours. The Captain was PF for the incident sector but at the time of the deviation from clearance was taking a meal break and had handed control of the aircraft to the First Officer. It was established that almost immediately after being cleared to begin descent when ready from FL390 to F300 - and before action to commence that descent had occurred - the aircraft unexpectedly began to climb. The crew initially reported checking the MCP and attempting to change the vertical mode but after 26 seconds, the PF disconnected the AP and manually began a descent from FL399. ATC were advised of the deviation to 1000 feet above the cleared level due to an "autopilot issue" and the crew both believed that the AP had then been re-engaged, although the recorded data showed that it had not. During the recovery descent, the crew de-tuned the Brisbane ILS frequency (which was the same as Canberra and had remained selected following compliance with the SOP to have it set for departure) so that they could deactivate the GS mode and select VS. The aircraft then began to bank left because of a small residual rudder reflection which had previously been compensated for by the AP. The First Officer, still PF and believing that the AP was engaged, changed the selected HDG in an attempt to stop the turn but the bank and the consequential deviation left of track continued. ATC were advised of "a lateral navigation problem". After approximately 1 minute 20 seconds, the crew realised that the AP was not engaged and the First Officer began a right turn to regain the cleared track. Soon after this, the AP was re-engaged and the Captain took over as PF. The rest of the flight was uneventful. Using recorded flight data, the Investigation found that shortly after reaching cruise level, the APP mode had been manually selected on the MCP by one of the crew. This action would have illuminated a green dashed light on the APP push-button and GS and VOR/LOC annunciations would have lit up on the FMA, which is located on the PFDs of both pilots. The effect of the selection was to arm GS and VOR/LOC modes so that they would become the active modes as soon as the aircraft met the capture requirements for any ILS frequency selected. As already noted, the frequency selected was that of the destination runway ILS as well as the departure runway ILS. After a little over 40 minutes at cruise altitude, the unexpected (because the earlier crew selection of APP mode had not been intentional) climb began because the aircraft navigation