An Investigation was carried our by the UK AAIB. It was noted that reporting of the incident by the Operator was delayed and that the failure to secure Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was not in accordance with applicable regulations. It was also observed that, although QAR data had been recovered for use in the Investigation, provision of such data did not constitute an AMC compatible with regulatory requirements. It was found that at the time of the incident, Astraeus did not have a formal procedure for the preservation of the FDR or CVR but noted that this has since been rectified. During the replay of the QAR, it was found that there was an error on the Boeing FDR data frame conversion in respect of a parameter relevant to the Investigation. An analysis of an infrared satellite image in conjunction with the QAR data identified the aircraft track in relation to weather characterised as Mesoscale Convective Systems and it was estimated that the aircraft had made prolonged transits through two of these and been within the second when the sudden increase in engine vibration occurred despite having altered course earlier to avoid significant weather radar returns. SAT at the onset of the vibration had been MS 47, which is below the AFM temperature (MS40) at which engine anti icing (EAI) is required to be selected on. However, observing light icing on the windshield by torchlight, the flight crew had first selected the EAI on and then carried out the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) procedure for ice shedding on the left engine As engine thrust was reduced, the vibration level increased rapidly to the maximum EICAS reading. An attempt to restore normal function was not successful and engine malfunction followed. The right engine was not subjected to the same drill and continued to operate normally although at the continued abnormal vibration level. Prior to the diversion landing, normal response to left engine thrust lever movement returned and a 2 engine landing was made. Subsequent examination found no sign of damage to either engine. The engines fitted to the aircraft were Rolls Royce RB211-535E4. Rolls Royce advised the Investigation of their awareness of several low pressure shaft vibration events on the same engine type which had been attributed to ice and noted that all had occurred on aircraft which had either not had a specific SB in respect of the fan spinner embodied ahead of a latest-compliance date of March 2015 or where prior seal damage in this same area had been found. In this case, the incident aircraft engines had no pre-event seal damage but were in a ‘pre-mod’ condition. The Investigation concluded that the left engine had “entered a surge or stall condition following the action of retarding the thrust lever and then increasing thrust. There was no damage evident within the engine and the vibration condition was attributed by the engine manufacturer to an asymmetric ice build up under the spinner fairing.” The