reason why the engine responded abnormally to the ice shedding procedure was considered to have been a consequence of thrust lever movements as part of the drill being made more abruptly than the engine manufacturer had anticipated. A review of the existing Engine Operating Instructions (EOI) by Rolls Royce concluded that they should be improved and an addendum made to the effect that the ice shedding procedure should not be used when at climb or cruise thrust in high altitude ice crystal clouds above FL250 where the most appropriate action would be to descend to warmer conditions. The Investigation was advised that the proposed EOI changes have been agreed to by the airframe manufacturer and will be embodied in the QRH and FCOM in their 2011 revision. Because of this, no Safety Recommendation to correct the inappropriate QRH drill was considered necessary. However, three other Safety Recommendations were made by UK AAIB as a result if the Investigation recommending that: The Civil Aviation Authority ensures that United Kingdom operators have procedures for preventing the loss of Cockpit Voice Recorder and Flight Data Recorder recordings, following an occurrence subject to mandatory reporting, in accordance with the legislative requirements of EU-OPS 1.160 and EU OPS 1.085. (2011-022). Boeing advises all operators utilising the Flight Data Recording 757-2 Data Frame of the need to correct the conversion of the left and right engine vibration parameters. (2011-021). Boeing provides updated documentation that corrects the Flight Data Recording 757-2 Data Frame conversion information for the left and right engine vibration parameters. (2011-022). The Final Report: AAIB Bulletin: 6/2011 EW/C2010/08/15 of the Investigation was published on 9 June 2011. It contained the following ‘Comment’ in respect of the icing environment which led to the event: “The aircraft experienced a prolonged exposure to an area where ice crystal concentrations may have been present. Although ice crystals may not have been the cause of this event it is an atmospheric condition that is not yet well understood. This has been recognised and a data collection programme is presently underway in the USA to increase the understanding of high water content ice crystal conditions. These are conditions where strong convective weather activity lifts high concentrations of ice crystals to high altitude. The crystals can partly melt and stick to internal engine surfaces causing power loss and/or surge/stall to occur. Data indicates that there have been at least 100 events of jet engine power loss due to core-icing during the last 30 years. The data gathered should enable certification authorities to define new parameters for developing and certifying engines. It may also lead to better forecasting of the presence of such areas, which are not detectable by existing aircraft weather radars. The knowledge of these conditions, and their effect upon various aircraft systems, is at present limited. Proposed guidance to flight crew is restricted to avoiding such weather or flying clear if encountered”'. The publication in March 2011 of the EASA NPAs 2011-03 and 2011-04, entitled ‘Large Aeroplane Certification Specifications