failure had caused damage to the remaining blades which would have lowered engine efficiency sufficiently to have "greatly reduced the power output of the engine to drive the propeller". A review of documentation relating to the stator burn-through damage found a discrepancy between the manufacturer's engine maintenance and component overhaul manuals. This had led to the failed stator component being removed in the past and found unserviceable according to the engine maintenance manual but then evaluated as serviceable in accordance with the component overhaul manual and re-installed in the accident aircraft's left engine. The Investigation formally documented the following Findings: Causes and Contributory Factors A first-stage turbine wheel blade in the left engine failed due to a combination of metallurgical issues and stator vane burn-through.. As a result of the blade failure, the left engine continued to operate but experienced a near-total loss of power at approximately 500 feet above ground level, on final approach to Runway 26 at the Red Lake Airport.. The crew were unable to identify the nature of the engine malfunction, which prevented them from taking timely and appropriate action to control the aircraft.. The nature of the engine malfunction resulted in the left propeller being at a very low blade angle, which, together with the landing configuration of the aircraft, resulted in the aircraft being in an increasingly high drag and asymmetric state. When the aircraft’s speed reduced below [the airborne] Minimum Control Speed (Vmca), the crew lost control at an altitude from which a recovery was not possible.. Risk If pilots believe that the negative torque sensing (NTS) system in the SA227 aircraft will activate in the event of any power loss or that NTS activation alone can provide adequate anti-drag protection in the event of an engine power loss, there is a risk that flight crews operating these aircraft types may not initiate the Engine Failures In Flight checklist in a timely manner.. If there is no requirement for a boroscope inspection of the TPE331-11U-612G’s internal engine components in conjunction with the 450-hour fuel nozzle inspection, there is an increased risk that premature internal engine damage will not be detected.. If there are discrepancies between the fuel nozzle testing procedures described in the TPE331-11U-612G maintenance manual and the corresponding fuel nozzle overhaul manual, there is a risk that unserviceable fuel nozzles may be evaluated as serviceable and re-installed on aircraft.. Other Matters The SA227’s negative torque sensing (NTS) system may not always activate in response to an engine failure. The nature of the engine failure and aircraft profile may affect whether or not NTS activation parameters are reached.. Safety Action during the course of the Investigation and made known to it included the following: TSB Canada has issued a Safety Advisory on 'Operation of Aircraft with Negative Torque Sensing Systems' which notes that under certain conditions, such as an incomplete engine shutdown or in certain aircraft configurations, the SA227 NTS may not activate and that similar NTS systems are installed on other aircraft