An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. The accident aircraft was equipped with an FDR and a 2 hour CVR and both were recovered and their data successfully downloaded. It was noted that the ELT had been destroyed by "impact forces" and no signal had been transmitted from it. It was noted that the aircraft Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had 5,150 hours total flying experience which included 3,550 hours on type. The First Officer had 2,200 hours total flying experience which included 1,060 hours on type. It was established that the flight had been entirely uneventful until, at approximately 500 feet agl and about 1.4nm from the runway, "the crew noted an aircraft malfunction but did not immediately identify the nature of it". FDR data showed that although the left engine had continued to run, it was providing "little or no power" to its propeller. Maximum power was set on one or both engines and the landing gear was selected up with the intention of commencing a go around with an emergency declared. The attempt to climb "was unsuccessful" and power was reduced and the gear was reselected down before it had reached the up position. The aircraft began to bank left and then, 43 seconds after the left engine had suddenly malfunctioned, power on the right engine had been increased almost to maximum again upon which the aircraft had veered and begun a rolling descent towards trees that its left wing then impacted. It had then continued through the trees and struck overhead cables which had "arrested the aircraft's speed and descent rate and attenuated the force of the impact with the edge of a roadway". The aircraft had then "cartwheeled down a slope", further reducing the force of the impact to those in the rear of the aircraft until it came to rest 56 seconds after the engine failure with the fuselage broken in half ahead of the over wing emergency exits and with the front half of the aircraft already engulfed in fire fed by fuel from the ruptured wing tanks. One of the two passengers who survived thus far was able to open the left emergency over wing exit and "help extract a passenger who was jammed between the seats near the exit row". The aircraft was fitted with Honeywell TPE331 engines which feature an NTS system. It was concluded that the selections of increased power after the left engine had malfunctioned had only produced an increase in the power provided by the right engine and the final increase to near maximum had "exacerbated the aircraft's asymmetric state and resulted in the aircraft rolling left to 41° of bank". At this attitude in landing configuration, the stall speed would have been approximately 98 KIAS. As the airspeed was found to have reduced to very near this, it was concluded that the terminal loss of control was probably the result of a wing stall. Vmca for the accident aircraft, which was