likely to have been known to the crew since it is published in their manuals, was lower at 91 KIAS but this is based on the NTS system activating on an inoperative propeller which did not occur and also assumes take off power on the operating engine, a 5° bank towards it, landing gear up and flaps at the ¼ take-off position. It was noted that the crew had never identified the exact nature of the engine malfunction and had therefore not followed the "prescribed action of calling out the associated emergency procedure, which required them to stop and feather the propeller of the affected engine". It was considered that "this may have resulted from a belief that the NTS system would always activate in the event of a power loss and that NTS activation alone would provide adequate anti-drag protection from a windmilling propeller" and noted that if the crew had feathered the left engine propeller, the decrease in the drag compared to that in the un-feathered state would probably have allowed them to maintain control of the aircraft. It was found that there was "no specific guidance […] for an engine failure on short final approach" in the aircraft operating procedures and noted that in the case of all in flight engine failures, there was a caution instructing pilots "to keep the power lever well forward to command high propeller blade angle and thereby reduce the windmilling propeller drag in the event that an NTS system failure accompanies an engine failure". It was also found that "the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for a non-precision engine-out approach required the crew to change [re-configure] the aircraft flap and gear positions 3 times during the final stages of the approach" which prompted the Investigation to observe that "frequent configuration changes over a short distance or period of time can lead to confusion as to the configuration state of the aircraft". A detailed spectral analysis of the noise on the CVR attributable to the propellers was used to prove that the onset of the engine failure event was sudden and that the crew would have had no prior warning of it. Examination of the remains of both the engines confirmed that the malfunctioning one as well as the serviceable one had been running at impact. However, it was eventually determined that the first-stage turbine disc had failed because of high-cycle fatigue caused by a combination of "substandard porosity of the turbine blade material which resulted in inadequate fatigue capability and the creation of a favourable location for crack initiation". This crack initiation had been associated with "a minor increase in the mean stress in the blade fir tree region due to blade platform contact" and "stator burn-through which resulted in an uneven vibration on the turbine disc and heat stress on the turbine blades". It was considered that failure of a single first-stage turbine blade would on its own not have caused the engine to lose all its power but this initial