This is an extract from the Investigation Report (AI2009-1) on the serious incident published by Japan Transport Safety Board (Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB)): […]On February 16, 2008, […] a Boeing 747-400D (hereafter called “the aircraft A”) operated by Japan Airlines International Co., LTD. […] began its taxi bound for Tokyo International Airport from spot 14 of New Chitose Airport[…]. A total of 3 pilots were on board in the cockpit of the aircraft A, a captain was at the left pilot seat as PF [Pilot Flying], a trainee pilot for first officer promotion training (hereafter called “the trainee”) was at right pilot seat as PM [Pilot Monitoring, or PNF, primarily responsible for non-manoeuvring duty], and a first officer seated at observer seat. On the other hand, Douglas MD-90-30 (hereafter called “the aircraft B”), […] was cleared to land by the local controller of the Chitose Aerodrome Control Tower (hereafter called “the tower”) […] Aircraft A was issued clearance to line-up and wait after aircraft B touched down. It is seen from the summary of all data sources that the landing traffic made a full stop on the runway and resumed movement after 13 seconds thus prolonging the time that was needed to vacate the active runway. […]10:32:30 The tower informed the aircraft A, “JAPAN AIR 502, EXPECT IMMEDIATE TAKE-OFF, TRAFFIC LANDING ROLL AND INBOUND TRAFFIC 6 MILES” […] 10:32:37 The aircraft A replied to the tower, “ROGER, JAPAN AIR 502”. Few seconds after, aircraft A accelerated - its action was observed by the controller and he gave instruction for immediate stop. The tower also gave “go around” instruction to the other traffic that was 6 NM from touch-down. Complex meteorological conditions prevailed during the time of the incident. According to the Report, prevailing visibility was between 400 m and 600 m, and vertical visibility was between 200 ft and 300 ft, in snow showers. The braking action on the runway was medium to poor (0.26~0.29), above 80% of the runway was covered by dry compacted snow. The depth of the contamination was between 10 and 80 mm. The written statement of the captain of aircraft A enclosed in the Report, could be summarised around the following points: The use of word ‘immediate’ left a notion of urgency in the situation;. The trainee failed to read-back correctly, but the captain decided to proceed without noting it;. The word ‘take-off’ was used instead of departure.. The analysis of the event includes summary points: […] When the aircraft A was waiting for the takeoff clearance on the runway, the aircraft B on the same runway was not visible from the aircraft A, under low visibility due to snowfalls.. As the controller did not request "REPORT CLEAR OF ACTIVE" to the aircraft B going ahead, there was no means for the flight crews of the aircraft A to know the time when the runway cleared off by the aircraft B.. Because the runway occupation of the aircraft B was prolonged, and the controller