had psychological oppression about the separation between the aircraft A and the approaching aircraft C, the controller issued ATC information that contained "IMMEDIATE TAKE-OFF".. It is not described in Air Traffic Control Procedures and Air Traffic Control Regulations that "TAKE-OFF" is used at the takeoff clearance and its cancellation, besides, not using it in principal, and the controller did not have such recognition.. The captain of the aircraft A, having severe meteorological condition, and being aware of the separation with the approaching aircraft C, was psychologically in the state of "set" that it comes next to be the takeoff clearance, moreover, because the operation of thrusts increase had been started immediately after beginning of the information, and the attention directed to engine instruments, so the controller's information was not caught accurately. From these, the captain of the aircraft A mistook the ATC information for a takeoff clearance.. As other flight crews of the aircraft A could not also catch the information by the controller accurately, and regarding the receipt of the takeoff clearance, there was a possibility that the system allowing advice to the captain had not been established sufficiently, therefore an advice to reconfirm was not done.. When the aircraft B was still on the runway, the controller who confirmed the aircraft A began the takeoff run with the ASDE indicator, issued to the aircraft A the stop instruction and had the takeoff run aborted.. The report offers several safety recommendations expressed as "safety opinions to the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan": […] Review of Crew Resource Management (CRM) training program To supervise the company to perform reviews in contents and timing of the CRM training program, to improve the environment that is easy for other flight crews including the trainee to advise to the captain positively in a case with the doubt for judgment / operation of the captain in line training.. Reconsideration of ATC terminology etc.. To prevent the mis-entering into the runway or the mis-departure, etc, to conduct the following items […]: To stipulate the usage restriction of “take-off” which has a possibility that the flight crew may misunderstand, and to consider necessity of usage restriction for other terms, and executed the education concerning it thoroughly to air traffic controllers, and to decrease the possibility of the misunderstanding in the ATC communications. To study reducing load to air traffic controllers from manpower and facility standpoint, in the airport where the air traffic volume is large, with the severe operation condition of the aircraft, and marginal weather conditions not to be seen the aircraft easily from the air traffic controller. To study measures considering that air traffic controllers should understand the flight crew's situation and needs enough, and for doing their tasks.. To stipulate the usage restriction of “take-off” which has a possibility that the flight crew may misunderstand, and to consider necessity of usage restriction for other terms, and executed the education concerning it thoroughly to air traffic controllers, and to decrease the