This article describes the typical methods and controller actions used to solve conflict between aircraft in a surveillance (mostly en-route) environment. Only situations with two participating aircraft are considered. Although more complex scenarios (involving three or more aircraft) do exist, they happen rarely and in most cases can be considered as multiple two-aircraft cases that happen at the same time. In broader terms, a conflict is a situation where the separation at the closest point of approach will be less than the specified minimum and one of the following exists: Two aircraft are flying at the same level. In this case, doing nothing will result in a Loss of Separation. There are two sub-scenarios to this: Crossing conflict - the two aircraft's paths cross at some point and diverge afterwards. An example of a crossing conflict Converging conflict - the two aircraft's paths join at some point and remain the same afterwards, at least for a portion of the flight. An example of a converging conflict. Crossing conflict - the two aircraft's paths cross at some point and diverge afterwards.. An example of a crossing conflict. Converging conflict - the two aircraft's paths join at some point and remain the same afterwards, at least for a portion of the flight.. An example of a converging conflict. At least one of the aircraft is climbing or descending to a level that will make it cross the other aircraft's level. In this case, doing nothing may lead to a loss of separation depending on the circumstances (e.g. vertical speed, distance between the aircraft, current vertical separation, etc.). The two aircraft are vertically separated but at least one of them needs to be cleared to a level that would cross the other's level (e.g. due to reaching the top of descent). Here, doing nothing will not cause loss of separation. However, improper timing of the instruction to change level may lead to this.. The second and the third situation usually happen near the transition between approach and area control. This is where departing aircraft reach their cruising level and arrivals start preparation for the final portion of the flight. The first one is more typical to the cruising part of the flight. Action to be taken by the controller in order to eliminate the risk of separation breach depends on a number of factors such as the type of conflict, the specific circumstances, the available aircraft performance, controller workload, etc. The most common methods for solving conflicts are: Level change. This solution is typically used for conflicting aircraft in level flight. In the crossing case, an opposite level may be used for a short time and then the aircraft will climb again to its cruising level. This is not an option in the converging scenario, meaning that the level change needs to be at least 2000 feet. Sometimes it is possible to use opposite levels for converging conflicts but this requires coordination with the downsteam sector or unit.. An example of using a