Mitigations for the major risks associated with a baulked landing must focus on both aircraft handling and missed approach obstacle clearance, as standard go around protocols have the potential to result in Loss of Control and, adherence to the published missed approach profile could result in loss of ground clearance. Flight crews should consider the actions and behaviour described below. As previously identified, in the context of a baulked landing, the simultaneous application of thrust, retraction of flap and rotation to the go around pitch attitude can result in loss of control due to the low energy state of the aircraft at the initiation of the go around. Whilst all three actions must still occur, the sequence and the triggers for the individual events must be more methodical and deliberate. In the event of a baulked landing decision, the pilot should follow the guidance provided by the AFM. In the lack of specific guidance, the following actions should be taken: Note that some agencies advocate combining some of these steps by waiting until the airspeed is increasing through Vref plus 10 and then reverting to the normal go around profile. The critical premise of both methodologies is that climb must not be initiated and flaps must not be retracted until thrust is being generated and the airspeed is increasing. The risk associated with obstacle clearance after a baulked landing will depend upon a combination of factors inclusive of: As identified previously, the go around from a baulked landing is initiated from a point below and beyond the missed approach point and thus commences below the Obstacle Clearance Surface (OCS) that was utilised during the IAP design to ensure safe obstacle clearance. At typical landing weights and with all engines operating, most aircraft can easily outclimb the Required Obstacle Clearance (ROC) gradient. However, the aircraft will still be at significant CFIT risk for the period it remains below the OCS. This period will be extended, and the problem exacerbated, in cases where obstacles in the missed approach path necessitated a higher than standard OCS gradient, or if performance is compromised as would be the case if all engines are not operating, if the landing weight is significantly higher than normal or due to hot and high conditions. In circumstances of daylight VMC, visual avoidance of any obstacles may be possible until the aircraft has climbed above the OCS at which time the missed approach procedure will ensure obstacle clearance. However, in IMC or at night, the visual avoidance of obstacles will not be possible. At night, or under instrument meteorological conditions, assurance of safe ground clearance after a baulked landing can be achieved by following the engine out SID or Emergency Turn procedure associated with the landing runway. This procedure has been developed for the engine failure after V1 case and will identify an appropriate obstacle clearance routing and a maximum weight against a given ambient temperature at which the aircraft can safely achieve the associated climb gradient after failure of