At larger airports, it is usual to find different parts of the airport controlled by ATC using different radio frequencies, often with different radio call sign endings. A call sign ending in “Tower” (TWR) usually indicates a radio frequency used to control at least one active (in use) runway; a call sign ending in “Ground” (GND) usually indicates that an active (in use) runway is not being controlled.. Speak clearly and at a moderate speed, especially if the speaker has marked regional or non-native accent.. Always listen before starting a transmission and be aware that there may be a short gap between a transmission by other traffic or ATC and the corresponding reply.. Press the radio transmit switch before beginning to speak and do not release it until a transmission is finished, otherwise it may be ‘clipped’ and an important part of the content lost.. Know the airport layout and the location and designation of all runways, taxiways and holding points.. Find out before setting out which runways are in use and the location of any “work in progress” or taxiway closures which may affect usual routes.. Strictly adhere to vehicle speed limits; ATC will assume this if they need to amend a current clearance.. Use marked roadways where available. If in any doubt about an ATC instruction, obtain a repeat by saying “Say Again" (or “Say Again all before/after/between…”). Do not proceed beyond the previous clearance limit until a response has been obtained and understood.. Ensure that all ATC Clearances are read back in full before proceeding.. Remember the designated radio call sign for either the driver or the vehicle and: listen out for it at all times use it to identify each transmission made.. listen out for it at all times. use it to identify each transmission made.. Listen to aircraft/ATC communications and where possible, use the information acquired to build up a mental map of what else is moving - or about to be moving - in the area in which you are at present, or where you are about to proceed. This is called maintaining 'situational awareness' and is important for flight crew too.. If the vehicle being driven has an automatic position transmitter fitted which allows ATC to see its position on a remote display, then this must be switched on whenever this is required.. If a vehicle driver becomes uncertain of his/her position, the vehicle should be stopped immediately and ATC informed. Further movement should await ATC instructions.. If the occupants of a vehicle operating under ATC Control need to work outside it, then they must have a means of hearing calls from ATC - a vehicle loudspeaker or portable radios - and these must be audible even at the high noise levels that are likely to be experienced.. Be aware of local radio failure procedures and be prepared to recognise the signs that this has occurred - whether wholly or only in respect of vehicle reception or (apparently) vehicle transmissions.. Review airport driver