On the ground with doors and hatches open, or when taxiing behind another aircraft, CO from external sources may enter the cabin and this will be immediately noticed by the smell of other exhaust gases. For the majority of people this experience will be little more than an irritable nuisance (like walking along a city street full of traffic), but some people may report feeling nauseous and faint. The irritation will soon disappear as the source of CO is removed. In-flight it is extremely unlikely that CO can enter the cabin or flight deck in any meaningful quantity, unless there is a fire on-board. Most large aircraft air-conditioning systems involve mixing unfiltered bleed air from the engine compressor (or APU when on the ground) with filtered re-circulated cabin air. Typical filters, on modern aircraft, can remove particles, bacteria, viruses, and various other organic compounds. The quality of cabin air is recognised generally as excellent, with the entire cabin air being replaced and filtered 20 to 30 times per minute. There are situations where the cabin air can become contaminated with lubricating oil, hydraulic fluids and de-icing and anti-icing fluids. These include engine and APU oil seal failures and inappropriate application of de-icing and anti-icing fluids into engine and APU air intakes. Of these, the only possible source for CO is when leaking aircraft engine lubrication and hydraulic oils are subjected to high temperatures. In these circumstances these oils can, through a process known as pyrolysis, degrade into several different compounds, which, if temperatures are high enough, may include CO[3]. However, where laboratory tests have detected production of CO from pyrolysis the concentrations have been too small to cause any health concern from long-term exposure; typically 3.5ppm, which is within our normal “metabolic” range of 0 to 10ppm[4]. The European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) examined the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) database for events involving poor quality of cabin air on large aircraft (commercial jet and turboprop aircraft with a zero fuel weight greater than 5,700kg) from 1970 to 2009. It notes that none of these events involved a catastrophic accident or fatalities, aeroplane handling was never compromised and no hazard or risk of injury presented to the passengers and flight crews[5].