Automatic Dependent Surveillance–Broadcast (ADS-B) and Multilateration (MLAT) are key enablers for the modernisation of the surveillance systems – both infrastructure and applications. In Europe, EUROCONTROL’s support for surveillance modernisation focuses on performance-based modernisation and rationalisation of the European ATM Network surveillance. It covers both ground surveillance (such as ADS-B, multilateration and Mode S) as well as airborne surveillance applications. It supports short-term implementations as well as longer-term SESAR projects. Surveillance modernisation in Europe progresses as follows: In non-radar airspace: implementation of ADS-B as sole means or together with multilateration, using current certified equipment on board thousands of aircraft. In radar airspace: implementation of combined multilateration and ADS-B systems. Multilateration is used initially, followed by the additional use of ADS-B. For the use of ADS-B, upgraded ADS-B avionics are required, driven by the Surveillance Performance and Interoperability Regulation (SPI IR) - EU Regulation No 1207/2011 and its amendment(s). The European Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1207/2011 and its first amendment 1028/2014, is a mandate for Surveillance Performance and Interoperability in the European airspace. The regulation lays down the mandatory carriage and operation of Mode S Elementary Surveillance (ELS) for aircraft operating IFR/GAT (Instrument Flight Rules/General Air Traffic). The applicability dates are set for June 2020. The regulation also mandates the carriage and operation of Mode S Enhanced Surveillance (EHS) and ADS-B 1090 MHz Extended Squitter for aircraft operating IFR/GAT and with a maximum certified take-off mass exceeding 5700kg or with a maximum cruising true airspeed capability greater than 250 knots. The applicability dates are set for by June 2020. Surveillance moves quickly from sole use of radars to multiple types of sensors. Dozens of multilateration systems and over 1300 ADS-B ground stations have been implemented in more than 25 European States. The European States which are involved in the implementation of ADS-B and/or multilateration include Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Georgia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, UK, Ukraine. Most of the implementing States are currently using the multilateration data for operational ATS. In parallel, some European States have started using ADS-B for operational ATS, namely Iceland, Portugal, Norway and UK. ADS-B ground receivers are currently used but, from 2019 onwards, space-based ADS-B should also be available for operational use. Several thousands of aircraft are already certified for ADS-B operations in Non-Radar Airspace. Furthermore, more than 2500 aircraft are observed (in May 2018) to be equipped with upgraded ADS-B Out avionics, in line with the SPI Implementing Rule. Avionics implementation based on the SPI Implementing Rule covers both Mode S and ADS-B Extended Squitter. This will make the airborne installations “future proof”, i.e. supporting all surveillance techniques currently in use or planned to be used. The ADS-B avionics requirements include transponder upgrade to ADS-B v2 (ED102A/DO260B) and low latency GNSS receiver-transponder wiring. Regarding Airborne Surveillance (i.e. Surveillance in the cockpit), initial applications (Airborne Traffic Situation Awareness – ATSAW) have been operational in Europe since February