An ICAO analysis of controlled-flight-into-terrain accidents found that poor crew monitoring was a factor in half of the 24 accidents reviewed. The FSF Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) Task Force found that "inadequate monitoring and cross-checking" were present in 63 percent of approach-and-landing accidents. Three-quarters of the monitoring errors failed to catch problems that the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) has identified as causal. A collaborative research effort by NASA-Ames, 21 worldwide airlines and the University of Texas Human Factors Research Program that observed more than 2,000 airline flights noted that roughly 62 percent of unintentional errors went undetected by flight crews. In other words, sometimes we aren't very good at catching our own errors. Researchers examining these data noted that more effective crew monitoring could have averted nearly one-fifth of errors and 69 percent of undesired aircraft states. All too often, flight crews are doing too many concurrent things to adequately monitor the aircraft. A particularly interesting statistic from this line operational safety audit data is that 30 percent of the crew errors observed in the 2,000-plus in-flight observations occurred when the flight crew was programming the Flight Management System. Some 40 percent of the reports indicated air crews had been distracted by radio communications with ATC, the FBO or obtaining Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS), or by performing checklists, scanning for traffic and dealing with the FMS. Often several of these existed at the same time. Observations during another Line Operational Safety Audit at several major airlines revealed over one-third of the monitoring errors occurred due to poor workload management. A significant number of pilots simply weren't planning ahead to accomplish as many tasks during low-workload periods as possible. The key periods in which pilots were committing the most errors due to poor workload management were during taxi-out, within 1,000 feet of level-off, while descending and making an approach or landing, and taxi-in.