Carefully developed procedures and guidelines can make a significant contribution to enhancing flight-crew monitoring. Several major airlines have recently revised their procedures to maximize the monitoring of aircraft trajectory, automation and systems. They have tried to minimize or eliminate concurrent procedures that conflict with crew monitoring. Several of the major U.S. airlines actively helped the FAA revise "Standard Operating Procedures" (AC 120-71A) in February 2003 so that it promotes monitoring. The Advisory Circular contains an SOP template in Appendix 19 for operators that is specifically designed to improve monitoring. One noteworthy observation was that crews were often distracted from aircraft monitoring during the descent phase while briefing the approach. In fact, one airline's Line Observational Safety Audit found that crews who briefed during the descent committed many more errors than crews who briefed prior to descent. Briefing during descent led to a significant "bump" in the number of level-off errors, missing ATC amended clearances, and altitude busts occurring during this time. Obviously briefing an approach is an attention-demanding task. US Airways now recommends briefing the anticipated approach prior to the top-of-descent, when the workload is low. Now sometimes pilots can't pick up the ATIS to find out which approach will be in use before starting down from cruise. The US Airways experiment found that if crews would look at the weather forecast and make an informed guess on which approach would be in use based on the weather, they would be right more than 90 percent of the time. By having the approach already briefed before the descent, both crewmembers are able to be "heads up" and actively monitoring during the critical descent, approach and landing phases. This technique has significantly reduced the number of flight crew errors. In addition to these procedures, it's helpful to impress upon pilots the importance of monitoring during training sessions. Instructors should insist that the pilot monitoring monitors the aircraft effectively, and then acknowledge those who demonstrate good monitoring skills. Pay more attention to workload management so that at least one pilot is always monitoring during low-workload periods and both pilots are monitoring as much as possible when things get busy. Starting from day one in the simulator, ensure all monitoring and cross-checking procedures are followed. Insist crews make the 1,000-foot level-off call prior to the alerter. If the crew misses, it's a clue that they are not actively monitoring the aircraft.