Larger operators with high flight densities in particular airspace should consider routinely using a combination of numeric and alphanumeric call sign formats.. Observe the following guidance in selecting call signs (see also link for EUROCONTROL Call Sign Similarity Service in the Further Reading section): Avoid the use of similar call signs within the company; Where practicable, proactively co-ordinate with other operators to minimise similar numeric and alphanumeric elements of call signs; Avoid call signs with a four-number sequence; all-numeric callsigns should be limited to a maximum of three digits; Do not use the same digit repeated more than once (e.g. RUSHAIR 555); If letter suffixes are to be used with a preceeding number sequence, limit the full string to a maximum of four alphanumeric components and, to the extent possible, coordinate letter combinations with other airspace and airport users; Do not use alphanumeric call signs which have their last two letters as the destination’s ICAO location indicator (e.g. RUSHAIR 25LL for a flight inbound to London Heathrow); Where the total number of flights operated is large, it is likely to be best to use a combination of wholly some numeric and some alphanumeric callsigns rather than all numeric or all alphanumeric; If similarly-numbered call signs are unavoidable within a company, allow a significant time (at least 3 hours at any shared-use vicinity) and/or geographical split between aircraft using them; If it is considered that useful capacity in the allocation of call signs has been reached, then consider applying for and using a second company call sign designator; Do not use similar/reversed digits/letters in alphanumeric call-signs (e.g. RUSHAIR 87MB and RUSHAIR 78BM). For short haul flights, avoid using number sequences for particular routes which begin the day with ..01 and then continue sequentially through the day.. Avoid the use of similar call signs within the company;. Where practicable, proactively co-ordinate with other operators to minimise similar numeric and alphanumeric elements of call signs;. Avoid call signs with a four-number sequence; all-numeric callsigns should be limited to a maximum of three digits;. Do not use the same digit repeated more than once (e.g. RUSHAIR 555);. If letter suffixes are to be used with a preceeding number sequence, limit the full string to a maximum of four alphanumeric components and, to the extent possible, coordinate letter combinations with other airspace and airport users;. Do not use alphanumeric call signs which have their last two letters as the destination’s ICAO location indicator (e.g. RUSHAIR 25LL for a flight inbound to London Heathrow);. Where the total number of flights operated is large, it is likely to be best to use a combination of wholly some numeric and some alphanumeric callsigns rather than all numeric or all alphanumeric;. If similarly-numbered call signs are unavoidable within a company, allow a significant time (at least 3 hours at any shared-use vicinity) and/or geographical split between aircraft using them;. If it is considered that useful capacity in the allocation of call signs has been reached, then consider applying for