Whether flying in an unpressurised or pressurised aircraft, passengers and crew will experience a decrease in ambient (environmental) pressure whilst climbing, and an increase in pressure during descents. Some of these changes can be quite rapid. Such changes in pressure, and the speed of change, are not normally experienced “on the ground”; a rare example concerns travelling on a train as it enters or exits a tunnel at great speed. Divers will also experience similar pressure changes as they descend and ascend. In most people, the ability of the middle ear to equalise pressure via the Eustachian tubes is adequate to prevent discomfort and retain good hearing during all stages and profiles of flight. This is mostly achieved automatically, and any “lag” between the middle ear cavity and the aircraft cabin can usually be eliminated by gentle yawning or chewing. Sometimes, if pressure is felt within the ear, it is possible to force the issue by clasping the nose and blowing into a closed mouth (Valsalva method); what may be known as “popping” the ears. Even when the Eustachian tubes are infected (see below) it can be relatively easy to equalise the ears when adjusting to lower cabin pressure (i.e. when climbing). However, in the descent, even the Valsalva method may not “pop” the ears and the increased external pressure will cause great discomfort Similarly, the ostia usually remain clear enough to allow equalisation between the paranasal sinus cavities and the external air pressure. There is no natural mechanism we can employ to hasten the equalisation of the sinuses as there is for the middle ear. If the Eustachian tube(s) and/or the ostia become blocked, or partially blocked, then a pressure differential will exist across the eardrum(s) and parts of the face and skull respectively; this can lead to pain, which can become severe. In the case of the eardrum, the tympanic membrane will be distorted inward or outward, depending on the direction of the pressure differential. The ensuing pain is known as otic barotrauma, and will be felt acutely in the ears, also affecting one’s hearing. Sinus barotrauma will be felt above the eyes, behind the nose and in the cheeks, and possibly with a sensation that the teeth and gums are affected.