Pain - Even moderate amounts of pain will distract an aircrew member from being able to conduct their tasks – they can become, effectively, incapacitated. In severe cases of barotrauma an aircrew member can be grounded for a long period, and may suffer a burst eardrum.. Vertigo - If one ear equalises, but the other doesn’t, then a form of pressure vertigo can be experienced as dizziness, which is not helpful for aircrew, especially pilots.. Disorientation - Blocked Eustachian tubes may also give rise to infection in the inner ear and therefore lead to risk of dizziness and spatial disorientation – both very serious flight hazards. The inner ear contains semi-circular canals which automatically detect accelerations in three dimensions and give us our “sense” of balance – where is up, down, left and right, and which way are we moving.. Headache - Sinusitis may develop giving rise to a constant throbbing headache felt in the face (often under the eyes or in the upper teeth). The pain gets worse when you move your head, strain or bend down, and when you experience extreme changes in temperature. Your face will also feel tender to the touch, and you may have other general symptoms such as a runny nose and sore throat. The symptoms of a sinus headache can easily be confused with both migraine and tension headaches.. Hearing - Unequalised ears result in distortions of the eardrum and therefore, hearing will be impaired, in terms of attenuation and also clarity. This can lead to pilots and cabin crew not hearing, or mishearing, critical instructions.. Workload - Finally, but by no means least, it can be quite traumatic (and a distraction) having a colleague or passenger on-board suffering from blocked Eustachian tubes while descending. Pilots will need to balance the desire to get the patient to a medical facility as soon as possible against the need for a slow descent. A delayed and/or slowed descent will alter the flight profile, and will affect fuel burn, landing weights, power settings, perhaps arrival and approach path, and even management of the pressurisation system. All of these are additional to the pilots’ normal workload and concerns, and can potentially introduce hazards..