with five alternating full deflection rudder pedal inputs. These were accompanied initially by “a thump, a click and two thumps”, followed two seconds later by a “snap” and one second after that by a “loud thump” as the right rear main attachment fitting of the vertical stabiliser failed. The stabiliser itself then separated from the aircraft at the same time as the CVR recorded a “loud bang”, some 6½ seconds after the sequence of aggressive control inputs had begun. Subsequently, both engines also separated from the aircraft before impact. The ground track of the aircraft is depicted on the illustration below. It was noted that the origin of the two short wake turbulence episodes was the 747 which had taken off the same runway as the A300 and which had then followed a similar left turning track whilst remaining a little over half a mile west of and above that of the A300 and that the available evidence was that neither was more than minor in nature. It was also noted that the Captain had not sought to intervene during the second turbulence encounter and that there was no evidence on the CVR to suggest that he had appreciated that the upset was a consequence of the First Officer’s control inputs, which given its short duration was judged ‘understandable’. No evidence was found that mechanical failure could have caused the five cyclic movements of the rudder pedals and rudder recorded immediately after the onset of the second turbulence encounter. It was also found that the only way to move the rudder in a way that could create an FDR record which would match that of the accident aircraft was if a pilot depressed the rudder pedals and it was therefore concluded that the recorded movements had been the result of the First Officer’s rudder pedal inputs. It was also concluded after extensive analysis that the vertical stabiliser “had performed in a manner that was consistent with its design and certification” and that it had detached from the fuselage in overstress after exposure to aerodynamic loads which were around twice the certified limit load design envelope and also greater than the certified ultimate load design envelope. The remainder of the Investigation therefore centred on analysis of the First Officer’s rudder pedal inputs. It was determined that three main factors had influenced the First Officer’s use of the rudder during the accident sequence: A tendency to react aggressively to wake turbulence. Evidence of his responses to previous wake turbulence encounters was obtained and two company Captains provided “noteworthy accounts” of the First Officer’s reaction to such events which suggested over-reaction had been a feature of them. It was also noted that his response to the first of the two wake turbulence encounters on the accident flight had, whilst having had no direct bearing on the accident, involved control inputs that “seemed excessive” as a response to the momentary effect that it had on the aircraft. The Pilot Training Regime. The training on