Administration carefully review all existing and proposed guidance and training provided to pilots of transport-category airplanes concerning special manoeuvres intended to address unusual or emergency situations and, if necessary, require modifications to ensure that flight crews are not trained to use the rudder in a way that could result in dangerous combinations of sideslip angle and rudder position or other flight parameters. [A-02-02]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require all manufacturers of transport-category airplanes to review and, if necessary, revise their maintenance manual inspection criteria for severe turbulence and extreme in-flight manoeuvres to ensure that loads resulting from positive and negative vertical accelerations, as well as lateral accelerations, are adequately addressed. [A-03-41]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require all manufacturers of transport-category airplanes to establish and validate maximum threshold values for positive and negative vertical and lateral ‘g’ accelerations beyond which direct manufacturer oversight and intervention is required as a condition for returning the airplane to service. [A-03-42]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require all operators of airplanes that have experienced accelerations exceeding the threshold values established as a result of Safety Recommendation A-03-42 (or that the operator has reason to believe might have exceeded those thresholds), as determined from FDR and other available data, to notify the FAA immediately of such high loading events and provide all related loads assessment and inspection results. [A-03-43]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require manufacturers of transport-category airplanes to immediately notify the appropriate certification authority of any event involving accelerations exceeding the threshold values (or that the manufacturer has reason to believe might have exceeded those thresholds) necessitating the intervention of the manufacturer, and provide all related loads assessment and inspection results. [A-03-44]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require that within 2 years, all Airbus A300-600/A310 and Boeing 747-400 airplanes and any other aircraft that may be identified as recording filtered data be retrofitted with a flight data recorder system capable of recording values that meet the accuracy requirements through the full dynamic range of each parameter at a frequency sufficient to determine a complete, accurate, and unambiguous time history of parameter activity, with emphasis on capturing each parameter’s dynamic motion at the maximum rate possible, including reversals of direction at the maximum rate possible. [A-03-50]. A total of 8 new Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration modify 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 25 to include a certification standard that will ensure safe handling qualities in the yaw axis throughout the flight envelope, including limits for rudder pedal sensitivity. [A-04-56]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should, after the yaw axis certification standard recommended in Safety Recommendation A-04-56 has been established, review the designs of existing airplanes to determine if they meet the standard. For existing airplane designs that do not meet the standard, the FAA should determine if the airplanes would be adequately protected from the adverse effects of a potential aircraft-pilot coupling (APC) after rudder inputs at all airspeeds. If