applicability. The latter included the following: To minimise the potential for aircraft-pilot coupling events, transport-category pilots would benefit from training about the role that alternating full control inputs can play in such events and training that emphasises that alternating full rudder inputs are not necessary to control a transport-category airplane.. There is a widespread misunderstanding among pilots about the degree of structural protection that exists when full or abrupt flight control inputs are made at airspeeds below the manoeuvring speed.. Federal Aviation Administration standards for unusual attitude training programs that take into account industry best practices and are designed to avoid inaccurate or negative training would lead to improvement and standardisation of industry training programs.. The use of lower levels of automation, such as simulators without motion or simple computer screen displays, may be more appropriate to provide the necessary awareness training with less danger of introducing incorrect information.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined to be “the in-flight separation of the vertical stabiliser as a result of the loads beyond ultimate design that were created by the First Officer’s unnecessary and excessive rudder pedal inputs”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: the characteristics of the Airbus A300-600 rudder system design.. some elements of the American Airlines Advanced Aircraft Manoeuvring Program.. A total of 7 new Safety Recommendations were made during the course of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration require the manufacturers and operators of transport-category airplanes to establish and implement pilot training programs that: explain the structural certification requirements for the rudder and vertical stabiliser on transport-category airplanes. explain that a full or nearly full rudder deflection in one direction followed by a full or nearly full rudder deflection in the opposite direction, or certain combinations of sideslip angle and opposite rudder deflection can result in potentially dangerous loads on the vertical stabiliser, even at speeds below the design manoeuvring speed. explain that, on some aircraft, as speed increases, the maximum available rudder deflection can be obtained with comparatively light pedal forces and small pedal deflections.. explain the structural certification requirements for the rudder and vertical stabiliser on transport-category airplanes.. explain that a full or nearly full rudder deflection in one direction followed by a full or nearly full rudder deflection in the opposite direction, or certain combinations of sideslip angle and opposite rudder deflection can result in potentially dangerous loads on the vertical stabiliser, even at speeds below the design manoeuvring speed.. explain that, on some aircraft, as speed increases, the maximum available rudder deflection can be obtained with comparatively light pedal forces and small pedal deflections.. The FAA should also require revisions to airplane and pilot operating manuals that reflect and reinforce this information. In addition, the FAA should ensure that this training does not compromise the substance or effectiveness of existing training regarding proper rudder use, such as during engine failure shortly after takeoff or during strong or gusty crosswind takeoffs or landings. [A-02-01] that the Federal Aviation