wake turbulence, upset recovery, and rudder pedal use provided in the American Airlines’ Advanced Aircraft Manoeuvring Programme (AAMP) included ground school training which “encouraged pilots to use rudder to assist with roll control during recovery from upsets, including wake turbulence”. It was also observed that the AAMP excessive bank angle recovery exercise was based on an unrealistic scenario and was capable of causing pilots “to develop control strategies that were effective in the simulator but might be inappropriate or even dangerous” if performed in an aircraft. This was considered to have had the potential to lead to the First Officer “having an unrealistic and exaggerated view of the effects of wake turbulence, erroneously associating wake turbulence encounters with the need for aggressive roll upset recovery techniques” and, as a result, developing control strategies which would produce potentially surprising and confusing outcomes if attempted in an aircraft rather than a simulator. It was further concluded that pilot training on the effect of rudder pedal inputs made at high speeds was inadequate and that it did not clearly address how the rudder limiter system operated. The characteristics of the A300-600 rudder control system. It was determined during the Investigation that the type rudder control system was “more sensitive” than that on other transport-category airplanes and noted that although rudder inputs had historically been made only when aligning an aircraft with the runway during crosswind landings or retaining directional control in engine-out scenarios, rudder use was now being recommended in training such as that provided in the AAMP as a means to assisting roll control during upset recovery in some circumstances. It was also noted that the rudder limiter system on the A300-600 was of the variable stop design which means a given pedal input results in that both rudder deflection and rudder pedal travel are both limited as airspeed increases so that “a given amount of pedal input results in the same rudder deflection at all airspeeds but the pedal travel (and consequently, pedal force) required to hit the pedal stops decreases as airspeed increases”. An exemplar consequence of this design was observed as being that the rudder is “twice as responsive to a pedal displacement at 250 KCAS as it would be at 165 KCAS”. More generally, the Investigation concluded that: an incorrect understanding amongst American Airlines A300 pilots of the meaning of Va and the extent to which structural protection from the effects of full deflection rudder input exists provided that an aircraft remains below this speed was likely to be widespread. The Investigation also considered that there was “no reason to believe that the misunderstanding about manoeuvring speed is limited to A300-600 pilots”.. The shortcomings identified in the American Airlines AAMP were just as likely to be present in other airlines’ upset recovery training programmes, especially but not only in respect of simulator use in such programmes.. Formally documented Findings from the Investigation included those made directly in respect of the accident and its circumstances and with more general