adequate protection does not exist, the FAA should require modifications, as necessary, to provide the airplanes with increased protection from the adverse effects of a potential APC after rudder inputs at high airspeeds. [A-04-57]. that the Federal Aviation Administration review the options for modifying the Airbus A300-600 and the Airbus A310 to provide increased protection from potentially hazardous rudder pedal inputs at high airspeeds and, on the basis of this review, require modifications to the A300-600 and A310 to provide increased protection from potentially hazardous rudder pedal inputs at high airspeeds. [A-04-58]. that the Federal Aviation Administration develop and disseminate guidance to transport-category pilots that emphasises that multiple full deflection, alternating flight control inputs should not be necessary to control a transport-category airplane and that such inputs might be indicative of an adverse aircraft-pilot coupling event and thus should be avoided. [A-04-59]. that the Federal Aviation Administration amend all relevant regulatory and advisory materials to clarify that operating at or below manoeuvring speed does not provide structural protection against multiple full control inputs in one axis or full control inputs in more than one axis at the same time. [A-04-60]. that the Federal Aviation Administration adopt and disseminate written guidance for use in developing and accepting upset recovery programs; such guidance could take the form of an advisory circular and should reflect the industry’s best practices and be designed to avoid inaccurate or negative training. [A-04-61]. that the Federal Aviation Administration along with developing the guidance recommended in Safety Recommendation A-04-61, evaluate issues concerning the level of automation appropriate to teaching upset training, and develop and disseminate guidance that will promote standardization and minimize the danger of inappropriate simulator training. [A-04-62]. that the Direction Général de l’Aviation Civile France review the options for modifying the Airbus A300-600 and the Airbus A310 to provide increased protection from potentially hazardous rudder pedal inputs at high airspeeds and, on the basis of this review, require modifications to the A300-600 and A310 to provide increased protection from potentially hazardous rudder pedal inputs at high airspeeds. [A-04-63]. The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted on 26 October 2004 and subsequently published.