An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The 2 hour CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and their data were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 60 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the investigated flight had approximately 25,800 total flying hours which included 2,980 hours on type. He had been employed by Delta since it took over his previous employer Northwest Airlines in 2010 and had made just one arrival to and one departure from Rapid City in that time. The 51 year-old First Officer had 7,600 total flying hours including 2,324 hours on type. He had been employed by Delta since 2000 and had never flown to or from Rapid City. Both pilots were based in Salt Lake City. It was established that the flight had proceeded uneventfully until reaching the vicinity of Rapid City. The crew had initially expected to be using runway 32 for landing and had briefed accordingly, but by the time they were about to begin positioning, the wind had changed and favoured runway 14. The Captain had, "due to his personal procedure […] prepared for the runway 14 approach as well (so) the change was not a significant factor". It was found that Delta charts for Rapid City included mention of its close proximity to Ellsworth Air Force Base to the northwest when on final approach and it was noted during the Investigation that the Ellsworth runway 13 extended centreline crosses the Rapid City 14 extended centreline at about 7½ miles prior to the 14 threshold. The approach briefing had included mention of this possible confusion. As the aircraft descended through FL 235 for 17,000 feet, the crew made initial contact with Ellsworth APP and the flight was re-cleared to 5,300 feet and advised to expect a visual approach to runway 14. At this point the aircraft was approximately 45 nautical miles east of destination. A few minutes later, the flight was abeam destination and was instructed to fly a radar heading of 300° "for a downwind leg to the visual approach". The Ellsworth APP controller and the Rapid City TWR controller discussed on the landline that the aircraft "was high and fast for the visual approach" and whilst they were talking, the aircraft descended through about 12,000 feet. The field elevation of Rapid City was 3,200 feet and the nominal remaining flying distance of 15 to 18 miles indicated that the aircraft was "well above the typical 300 feet per mile descent". About the same time, the Captain noted that the speed was too high and then recognised that the way he had set up the FMS was not going to work as he had intended. He re-selected 'Open Descent' mode. A minute later he said "there's the airport," and called for gear down and flaps one. By this time the destination was to the south-southwest of the aircraft in an 8 o'clock relative position whilst Ellsworth was in a 10 o'clock relative position. This suggested to