the Investigation that "it is likely the Captain was actually looking at the latter". After delaying their base leg turn from downwind because they were still too high, the crew eventually accepted a radar heading onto a left turn as they descended through 5,800 feet about 12 miles from destination and advised ATC that they "had the field in sight". Their height was consistent with a descent to Rapid City runway 14 but would have been "somewhat steeper than normal angle" for a descent to Ellsworth runway 13 which was only about 5 miles away. Ellsworth APP then called with "cleared visual approach runway 14, use caution for Ellsworth Air Force Base located six miles northwest of Rapid City Regional". After acknowledging the clearance, the First Officer was recorded as saying to the Captain "you got the right one in sight?" to which the captain replied "I hope I do" and as the aircraft approached the intersection of the two extended centrelines, the First Officer asked if they could contact TWR and this was approved. At this point, the Captain switched off the AP and "directed the First Officer to clear the flight director display". Then, just after switching to TWR and about 1,300 feet above the elevation of the runways at both the destination and Ellsworth and only about 3 miles from the latter, the rate of descent steepened. The Captain stated that he had not noticed the PAPI lights for the runway he was descending towards (which would have been all white) and had remained "focused on the visual approach". With the aircraft 1.5 nm from Ellsworth runway 13 (and 8 miles from Rapid City runway 14), the Captain called "confirmed stable" with the aircraft descending at approximately 1,200 fpm and added "this is the most [expletive] approach I've made in a while". As they approached the runway, the Captain began to retard the thrust levers to idle at which point both pilots reported having realised that they were landing at Ellsworth. The landing was reported to have been "uneventful" and they cleared the runway and notified Rapid City TWR of their location. It was noted that "clear skies" had prevailed for the final approach and landing, and that sunset was approximately 4 minutes prior to the landing. It was further noted that the lighting for both runway 13 at Ellsworth and runway 14 at Rapid City had been on and fully functional and that although both had PAPIs, the runway at Ellsworth was twice as wide (90 metres) as that at Rapid City (45 metres) and significantly longer (over 4,000 metres compared to 2,650 metres). It was also noted that only Ellsworth was equipped with an approach lighting system which included sequenced flashing lights in addition to the high intensity runway lighting which was illuminating both runways. Finally, it was found that the airport data for Rapid City provided for Delta flight crew reference and carried on board contained an explicit warning that "Ellsworth AFB lies northwest