pitch attitude and initiate the intended climb. Both pilots stated that at this time, the thrust levers had been moved sufficiently forward to engage TOGA mode but the recorded data showed that this was not the case. This meant that the A/T remained in speed mode which resulted in the thrust lever moving back to match the still-selected Vref of 133 KIAS. Fifteen seconds after the windshear alert had occurred, the combination of increased pitch and the loss of any increase in thrust resulted in the speed decreasing to a recorded 113 KCAS which activated the stick shaker for 2 seconds. After a further half a minute with the aircraft at 1,110 feet aal, the flaps were returned to position 4 and ten seconds after that, at approximately 1180 feet aal, the landing gear was retracted. TOGA was finally set 60 seconds after the stall warning had occurred and after a further 30 seconds, LNAV mode was selected at an ILS DME range of approximately 2.1 nm and a left turn to follow the missed approach procedure was commenced. The aircraft was climbed to 10,000 feet QNH at the Salzburg VOR and two holding patterns were completed there. A second approach was then commenced and completed without further event. The flight sequence of interest is shown on the illustration below. This shows that when the stick shaker (stall warning indication) occurred, the pitch angle was reduced about 500 fpm. Only when GA-mode was pressed some 60 seconds after the stall warning had occurred did the TOGA thrust setting then lead to a climb rate of approximately 1800 fpm. The flight profile reconstructed by the Investigation from the video created for the Austrian Airlines’ internal investigation (the original downloaded flight data was no longer available). [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Captain decided to go around on receipt of the advisory predictive windshear alert despite the fact that such a response is optional. However, successive failures to then follow the prescribed go around procedure/escape manoeuvre followed this decision: the power levers were not moved far enough forward.. neither of the two TOGA switches was pressed.. the A/T remained in ‘Speed’ mode.. the go around was initiated with “a high pitch angle”.. these procedural deviations and an increasing tail-wind component led to the aircraft almost stalling which activated the stick shaker.. either a windshear encounter or a near-stalled flight condition required the A/T to be deactivated but it was not.. It was noted that the Captain’s most recent practical windshear training had been almost two years earlier on the Fokker 100 and he had not received any such training on the E195. Also, although both pilots had received classroom training on “surprise and startle effect”, the Investigation determined that their failure to follow applicable normal procedures when responding to the alert had resulted from “a limited capacity to act as a result of the startle effect” - although no evidence in support of this finding was provided. The Probable Causes of the