Full information about what had involved a loss of control risk was not properly reported by the operator to the Federal Safety Investigation Authority (FSIA) of the Austrian Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology until almost three months later on 17 January 2018. Even then, the way in which this reporting occurred did not immediately allow the event to be identified as a significant operational safety matter. Once this fact became apparent, a Serious Incident Investigation was commenced and a short Interim Report was published on 2 April 2019 whilst the Investigation continued. It was noted that the same day the event had occurred, a report purporting to describe it had been submitted to the FSIA. However, all this report said was “windshear at 1300 ft, performed escape manoeuvre and missed approach, entered holding overhead SBG VOR, waited for weather improvement, second approach was successful” which did not indicate anything more than a routine operational occurrence. However, the operator had evidently recognised its significance and had carried out a detailed internal investigation using downloaded OFDM data from which a video animation of the event from a flight deck perspective was made. Once the FSIA Investigation had begun, a copy of this video was made available to it. Relevant CVR data had been overwritten and because of the late start of the Investigation, relevant recorded ATC data were no longer available. It was noted that Austrian Airlines “was unable to conclusively explain why it sent two very different incident reports for this one incident”. It was noted that the 44 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the flight under investigation held a current E170 family type rating as well as (concurrently) a current Fokker 70/100 type rating, the latter facilitating his duties as a current TRE (Type Rating Examiner) on that type only. He had a total of ”approximately” 13,000 hours flying experience which included 400 hours on E170 family aircraft in the previous nine months. The 24 year-old First Officer had a total of 450 hours flying experience of which 282 hours was on type gained in the previous four months. The weather conditions in the Salzburg area were characterised by scattered cloud and heavy rain showers - some of which had been sufficiently intense to require the windshield wipers to be set to maximum. The AP and A/T were engaged and the Captain was flying an ILS approach to runway 15 by reference to information on the HUD in slightly turbulent conditions. Shortly after the AP had been disconnected, with about 2.3 nm to go until touchdown, a predictive windshear alert attributable to a transient decrease in tailwind component was active for 8 seconds. In response, a go around/windshear escape manoeuvre was commenced with a recorded minimum height equivalent to 650 feet aal. The Captain moved the thrust levers to a TLA (lever angle) of 75° and then removed his right hand from them and pulled back on the stick with both hands to set a 14°