An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the French BEA. It was established that the PC12, with only two altimeters fitted, had earlier reported different readings on each of them, one showing FL270 and the other FL290, but had been reassured by an exchange with ATC that the former was correct. Despite the fact that the one stated by ATC to be correct was also on the same side of the cockpit as one of the two available airspeed indicators which had concurrently with the development of the altimeter discrepancy begun to register an impossibly low reading, the pilot had accepted the ATC assurance that his aircraft was at the correct cleated level of FL270. In fact, it was 2000 feet higher and the altimeter and airspeed on the other side of the cockpit were both correct. The rest of the flight was completed uneventfully by reference to those instruments. The A318 crew reported that they had initially detected some “strange” slow roll oscillations of about 5 degrees maximum for about 5 seconds but seeing nothing abnormal on their PFD, had carried on with the preparation for their arrival. Then, the First Officer “intrigued by fresh oscillations that made him think of wake turbulence, looked outside. He was then in visual contact with an aircraft that was very close, slightly above and to the right. He disconnected the autopilot and made a pitch down input to the left, keeping in constant visual contact with the other aircraft while passing. He estimated that he had descended around 200 feet during this manoeuvre. During this time, he was watching his Navigation Display (ND) to be sure that no aircraft was located below. He saw the white diamond symbol on the TCAS indicating an aircraft 2,000 feet below, without realising at that time that it was in fact the same aircraft that he had just passed.” The pitot static system on the PC12 was examined. It had a cabin differential pressure indicator which used the static pressure pneumatic line on the Pilot’s side to determine its indication. The Pilot’s side static line was found to have a leak on a connector that joined it to the cabin differential pressure indicator so that some of the pressurised air in the cabin was able to enter the static pressure line by (at FL290) an amount equivalent to 2,000 feet of altitude. It was noted that the aircraft was on its first flight following disconnection and reassembly of the static system in order to carry out an EASA-mandated Airworthiness Directive. Although the static circuit was required to be subjected to an impermeability test after reassembly, with an unpressurised system, this test did not show any leak. It was considered that the vibrations in flight and the stresses created by the climb with pressurisation of the cabin “very likely led the tube to move thus causing the leak”. The Investigation noted that the PC12 AFM Performance Tables showed that at the prevailing atmospheric conditions at