cruise power, the IAS at FL290 would be 158 KIAS whereas at FL270, it would be 165 KIAS. Prior to the conflict, the flight instruments in front of the (single) pilot were reported to have been showing FL270 and 90 KIAS whereas the fight instruments in front of the front seat passenger were showing FL290 and 160 KIAS. However, it was noted that the Pilatus Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) drill for pitot / static system problems did not lead to the utilisation of such diagnostic evidence. It was concluded that the near miss with the Airbus 318 had been the result of a leak in the static pressure line which supplied the left side barometric and speed unit which had led to erroneous altitude and speed information being displayed to the Pilot. It was found that this had caused the PC12 to fly into conflict with the A318 without the risk of collision between the two aircraft being detectable by the controller or by Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) or TCAS. However, the last minute sighting of the PC12 by the A318 had fortuitously removed the risk of a collision. The mistaken belief of ATC that it was possible to verify the actual altitude of the PC12 provided false reassurance to the PC12 Pilot and led him to continue his flight 2000ft higher (FL290) than the level he believed he was at (FL270). Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: On 26 August 2010: that the DSNA (French ANSP) implement, in the shortest possible time, an emergency procedure so that ATC ensures that there is a safety space around an aircraft as soon as the crew casts doubt on its vertical position, without waiting for the latter to declare a distress or emergency situation.. At the conclusion of the Investigation: that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should require that procedures in the Flight Manual relating to situations of doubtful or erroneous altitude be completed or developed by manufacturers. That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should require that these cases be considered as emergency situations that must be declared without delay by crews to the ATC services.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 10 February 2011. It included the statement that crews should be informed that: that they must strive to maintain external visual vigilance and to pay attention to “weak signals“. In the case under consideration, only the visual detection of the PC12 following a perception of “oscillations“ by the A318 crew made it possible to avoid a probable collision in flight.. that the protection systems onboard (TCAS) and on the ground (STCA) are based on the altimeter values transmitted by the airplane via the transponder. Consequently, a false altimeter value makes it impossible for these systems to play their role as the final safety system.. that ATC controllers do not have equipment that allows them to dispel any doubts expressed by a crew concerning its altitude. In fact,