ICAO’s Global Aviation Safety Plan (GASP) uses the accident rate as a safety indicator target to measure efficiency of global safety initiatives. One of the targets defined in the GASP calls for is a significant decrease in the accident rate, to be measured using a 5-year moving average. Accidents are random events by nature. The accident rate is therefore an indicator which has a strong random component making it move up or down constantly, making it difficult to judge whether a decrease is significant or not. 5-year simple moving averages alone are not filtering out enough of these random variations to allow easy detection of significant changes. ICAO has therefore defined a trend indicator in form of an adaptive moving average using analysis tools based on the well established theory of Bollinger Bands. Bollinger bands are a technical analysis tool invented by John Bollinger in the 1980s. Having evolved from the concept of financial trading bands, Bollinger bands can be used to measure the highness or lowness of safety indicators. Bollinger bands consist of: There are two indicators derived from the bollinger bands, %b and BandWidth. %b, pronounced 'percent b', is derived from the formula for Stochastics and indicates where the current accident rate is in relation to the bands. %b equals 1 at the upper band and 0 at the lower band. Writing last for the last accident rate: %b = (last − lowerB) / (upperB − lowerB) BandWidth tells us how wide the Bollinger Bands are on a normalized basis. Writing the same symbols as before: BandWidth = (upperB − lowerB) / IAMA Figure 1: World accident rate control chart The ICAO GASP 2013 sets out a continuous improvement strategy for States to implement over the next 15 years through the establishment of core, and then more advanced, aviation safety systems. The target dates and the broad objectives are set out below: Target Date Broad Objective The near- , mid- and long-term objectives reflect an evolution of the targets set out in the 2007 edition of the GASP. The current targets and objectives of GASP 2013 have been developed to provide a detailed path for globally coordinated safety improvements. The previous targets of the GASP to reduce the number of fatal accidents and fatalities, to significantly decrease the global and regional accident rates and to improve cooperation between regional groups and safety oversight organizations remain inherent to the GASP 2013 objectives.