The body of the Final Report comprises the following main headings: History of the flight. A brief narrative giving the following information: Flight number, type of operation, last point of departure, time of departure (local time or UTC), point of intended landing. Flight preparation, description of the flight and events leading to the accident, including reconstruction of the significant portion of the flight path, if appropriate.. Location (latitude, longitude, elevation), time of the accident (local time or UTC whether day or night).. Completion of the following (in numbers): Brief statement of the damage sustained by aircraft in the accident (destroyed, substantially damaged, slightly damaged, no damage). Brief description of damage sustained by objects other than the aircraft. a) Pertinent information concerning each of the flight crew members including: age, validity of licences, ratings, mandatory checks, flying experience (total and on type) and relevant information on duty time. b) Brief statement of qualifications and experience of other crew members. c) Pertinent information regarding other personnel, such as air traffic services, maintenance. etc., when relevant. a) Brief statement on airworthiness and maintenance of the aircraft (indication of deficiencies known prior to and during the flight to be included if having any bearing on the accident). b) Brief statement on performance, if relevant, and whether the mass and centre of gravity were within the prescribed limits during the phase of operation related to the accident. (If not and if of any bearing on the accident give details.) c) Type of fuel used. a) Brief statement on the meteorological conditions appropriate to the circumstances including both forecast and actual conditions, and the availability of meteorological information to the crew. b) Natural light conditions at the time of the accident (sunlight, moonlight, twilight, etc.). Aids to navigation. Pertinent information on navigation aids available, including landing aids such as Instrument Landing System (ILS), MLS, Non-Directional Beacon, PAR. VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR), visual ground aids, etc., and their effectiveness at the time. Pertinent information on aeronautical mobile and fixed service communications and their effectiveness. Aerodrome information. Pertinent information associated with the aerodrome, its facilities and condition, or with the take-off or landing area if other than an aerodrome. Location of the flight recorder installations in the aircraft, their condition on recovery and pertinent data available therefrom. General information on the site of the accident and the distribution pattern of the wreckage; detected material failures or component malfunctions. Details concerning the location and state of the different pieces of the wreckage are not normally required unless it is necessary to indicate a break-up of the aircraft prior to impact. Diagrams, charts and photographs may be included in this section or attached in the Appendices. Brief description of the results of the investigation undertaken and pertinent data available therefrom. Note.- Medical information related to flight crew licences should be included in Personnel information. If fire occurred, information on the nature of the occurrence, and of the fire fighting equipment used and its effectiveness. Brief description of search, evacuation