destination common traffic advisory frequency (CTAF) which the Captain then did. The applicable ILS minima were a DA equivalent to 200 feet agl and a minimum visibility requirement equivalent to 800 metres. The Aerodrome Automated Weather Observing System (AWOS) gave a report timed at eleven minutes before the accident which included a surface wind of 060º/4 knots, visibility equivalent to 800 metres in moderate snow and freezing fog with a temperature of -3ºC and dew point of -4ºC but the remarks section included an indicated precipitation rate for the previous hour of “trace”. An observation fourteen minutes after the accident gave the visibility as equivalent to 1,200 metres in light snow with cloud SCT (scattered)/800 feet and OVC (overcast)/1300 feet with a temperature -1ºC and dew point -4ºC with precipitation during the previous hour still recorded as “trace”. A call from the aerodrome maintenance foreman then confirmed that the 2265 metre-long runway was clear of snow removal vehicles. The Captain made the 1,000 foot call and confirmed that the aircraft was stabilised and that she had “ground contact”. She then asked the First Officer if he wanted the airport lights turned on (these were crew-controlled) and received an affirmative response. After the Captain’s 300 feet call, the First Officer stated that he was disconnecting the AP and the automatic calls “approaching minimums” and “minimums” followed procedural annunciations from the enhanced ground proximity warning system. About ten seconds later, the Captain was recorded saying “runway in sight, see it?” to which the First Officer responded with “yeah.....well I got somethin’ [that] looks like a runway up there” and a few seconds after that, the automatic ‘100’ feet agl call occurred. About 3½ seconds after this, the Captain stated “watch your speed” which was followed by “sounds similar to the stick shaker” and after a further 5½ seconds, the Captain called “go missed” twice and the First Officer complied. FDR data recorded a minimum of 169 feet agl before the climb commenced. During interview, the Captain stated that during this first approach she had seen the approach lights but had also seen a tower that looked “very close” to the aircraft at the same time. The First Officer stated that when he transitioned from the instruments to looking outside, all he saw apart from an “antenna” was “white on white” and he could not see the runway. The Captain notified Boston Centre of the go around and of their intention to make another approach and the flight was instructed to climb to and maintain 3,200 feet. She then called the aerodrome maintenance controller and advised him that they intended to make a second approach and would advise doing so. The First Officer agreed with the Captain that if the second approach was not successful, they would divert to Burlington International, the nominated alternate. Boston Centre subsequently commenced provision of radar vectors to intercept the runway 01 ILS and when this was communicated to the maintenance foreman with about 16 miles to run,