were subsequently then taken to the terminal by bus. The extensive direct and indirect impact damage to the aircraft was fully recorded in the Investigation Report. The left main landing gear lodged between left engine nacelle and the aircraft fuselage. [Reproduced from the Official Report] All the available evidence pointed to both approaches having followed the displayed ILS flight path and having been stable until the ILS DA had been reached. However, both approaches were continued below the applicable DA without the mandatory acquisition of sufficient visual reference to do so. The Investigation attributed this intentional continuation of the accident approach below minima to Confirmation Bias on the part of the First Officer. It was also considered that the First Officer’s two to three hour “sleep debt” prior to reporting for the accident flight and the fact that he was still coughing and had not made recent his CPAP would have induced a level of fatigue which was likely to have exacerbated the cognitive bias that he experienced during the flight. In respect of command, it was considered that the Captain had “demonstrated poor judgment and decision-making when she instructed the First Officer to stay on the flight instruments as the aircraft descended below DA” on the accident approach and that by the time he had transitioned to looking outside the aircraft, there was not enough time to determine the aircraft position in relation to the runway. The evidence available beyond that directly about the accident flight was considered to have “revealed deficiencies regarding her piloting abilities” whilst employed by CommutAir and “her repeated training problems indicated an inadequate foundation for being a Captain, which CommutAir did not effectively address”. However, in respect of the tracking of the aircraft on the ILS, FAA ADS-B data showed that the airplane had been to the right of the runway 01 centreline during both approaches and FDR data showed that the localiser and glideslope needles were “mostly centred with only small deviations consistent with normal piloting” in both cases. It was found that two days prior to the accident, another CommutAir flight making a night approach to the same runway had observed at 2500 feet on finals, their ILS LOC displays showed that they were on the runway extended centreline but visually they were actually to the right of it. Having corrected their track, they then noted “fly right” LOC indications. After landing the crew reported this localiser misalignment (an offset to the right of course all the way to the runway) to the Boston Centre controller who stated that he would “forward that information onward” and did so. However, no action subsequently followed. The applicable FAA Order stated that in the case of a reported navigational aid malfunction, a report from a second aircraft should be requested and if this confirms the malfunction “or in the absence of a second aircraft report”, activate the standby equipment or request the monitor facility to activate. The flight which reported the fault was the last