scheduled IFR flight into Presque Isle before the accident flight and the responsible “National Airspace System Operations Manager” stated that he had assumed that the lack of a second pilot report was an indication that the reported localiser misalignment was no longer a problem and had therefore not notified the organisation that monitored the status of the ILS equipment involved. It was also found that as well as the accident flight, during the five days prior to it five other CommutAir pilots had “encountered issues with the ILS LOC at Presque Isle but none of them had submitted an ASAP". The CommutAir ‘Managing Director of Safety’ stated that “he did not know why the reports were not filed”. It was concluded that CommutAir had “missed an opportunity to make this information available to relevant company flight crew and employ strategies to mitigate any potential threat that the misalignment posed”. Three days after the accident, the FAA conducted a flight inspection of the runway 01 ILS and confirmed that the LOC signal was out of tolerance by about 200 feet to the right of course. The depth of accumulated snow around the LOC signal transmitter was estimated at between 2 feet (60 cm) and 5 feet (1.5 metres) in the area of the LOC signal transmitter. After this snow had been removed, another FAA inspection six days later found that both LOC and GS signals were within the required tolerances and the ILS was returned to service the following day. Airport operations personnel at Presque Isle “stated that problems with the localiser signal had occurred during previous winters”. Noting that the aerodrome is not able to monitor ILS signal integrity, they would only learn about localiser signal problems from FAA technical operations personnel conducting checks either routinely or in response to a reported problem. They noted (only) “after a failed check”, airport operations personnel would remove snow until the problem was resolved. It was found that although the applicable FAA AC 150/5200-30D, ‘Airport Field Condition Assessments and Winter Operations Safety’ dated July 29, 2016 “stated that any snow or ice that affects the signal of an electronic navigational aid should be removed, the ILS guidance discussed snow clearance areas only for the glideslope”. Having confirmed that the ILS LOC signal had been erroneously transmitting a track to the right of the runway extended centreline rather than along it as promulgated, it was found that the fact that the aircraft had tracked this erroneous LOC meant that the ‘antenna’ seen by the pilots would have been a 30 feet high Automatic Weather Observing Station (AWOS) mast carrying wind-sensing equipment. It was additionally concluded that damage found to the lightning detector on top of this mast was the result of contact with the accident aircraft as it flew over the mast during the second approach when, unlike the earlier approach, it had only been seen by the Captain. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as "the flight crew’s decision, due to