he confirmed that the lights had “again been activated to high intensity”. When the flight was about 8 miles south of the Locator Outer Marker (LOM) Boston cleared the flight for the approach and on reporting established on the LOC, the flight was instructed to change to the CTAF. The approach was stable and continued with the Captain reminding the First Officer to “keep the autopilot on until 200 feet agl”. At 200 feet agl, she told the First Officer to “get the autopilot off” and this occurred about six seconds later. Two seconds after manual flight commenced, the automated “approaching minimums” call occurred followed seven seconds later by the automated “minimums” call. In between these two automated callouts, the captain called “100 feet” and about 2 seconds after the “minimums” annunciation, she called “runway in sight twelve o’clock”. During post accident interview, the Captain stated that both LOC and GS needles had been centred at that time and it was also noted that there had been no discussion about any deviation during the approach. Twenty seconds after the Captain’s ‘200 feet’ call, the First Officer was recorded saying “I’m staying on the flight director ‘cause I don’t see it yet” to which the Captain said “stay in” several times over a five second period. The First Officer subsequently stated that he had not seen the antenna structure during the second approach “because the aircraft had flown over it by the time that he looked outside” and the Captain stated that she had seen it again but that the aircraft had “levelled off to clear the structure before continuing to descend”. Descent continued without the runway in sight and a couple of seconds before ground contact was registered, the First Officer stated “I don’t know what I’m seein’”. Ground contact followed with a maximum vertical acceleration of 3.35g recorded and after twenty seconds deceleration on the ground during which the Captain recalled that the aircraft had been “bouncing up and down a few times”, it came to a stop. The cabin crew stated that the landing was “rough and violent” with seat cushions and passenger belongings falling into the cabin aisle. The final stopping position was within the snow-covered grassy area between the intended landing runway and the parallel taxiway 93 metres to the right of the runway centreline approximately 1,100 metres past the runway threshold. The aerodrome maintenance foreman estimated that at the time of the accident, around 20% to 25% of the runway surface, which had been subject to regular snow clearance prior to the approaches, would have been visible. The Captain instructed the passengers to remain seated and the engines were shut down. It was apparent to both the Captain and the Cabin Crew that an immediate evacuation was not necessary and it subsequently occurred by ladder with the aerodrome RFFS in attendance. A snowplough made a walkway so that those on board would not have to walk through the snow after exiting the aircraft and all