An Investigation was carried out by the US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Relevant data was recovered from both the FDR and CVR. It was found that the 40 year-old Captain had a total of 5,655 hours flying experience which included 1,044 hours on type. She had first worked for CommutAir between 2013 and 2015 as a DHC8 First Officer and, after leaving to work for another operator for six months, had then rejoined CommutAir as a DHC8 First Officer. According to the Vice President of Flight Operations, a few months after this, she had “received a disciplinary letter from the company and agreed to forgo an upgrade to Captain and be monitored for 9 months”. A DHC8 command then followed but during training for an Embraer 145 Type rating in September 2017, she was twice placed by the Operator under “increased scrutiny” due to training failures, including a failed Proficiency Check and received a FAA ‘Notice of Disapproval’ “due to difficulties in performing steep turns and an engine failure takeoff” during this Check. The following month, she received an Embraer 145 type rating and was released on type as Captain shortly afterwards. Remedial training to address her check/training difficulties during type conversion did not occur until March 2018. The Investigation took the view that “her repeated training problems indicated an inadequate foundation for being a Captain, which CommutAir did not effectively address”. The accident flight was the Captain’s first after two days off and she reported that she had “slept well” and more generally “had no sleep disorders or issues”. The 51 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,909 hours flying experience which included 470 hours on type obtained since he began working for CommutAir in May 2018. He had been off sick for a few days prior to the accident but had recovered and had commuted from his home in Palm Beach the previous day arriving at a hotel near Newark airport “about 0000 on March 4” and subsequently reported sleeping “for about five hours” rather than his normal 7 to 8 hours but was “still coughing” and had consequently used a Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machine which he had obtained after being diagnosed with “moderate obstructive sleep apnoea after a sleep study in 2012”. The Investigation concluded the First Officer “was likely fatigued on the day of the accident”. It was noted that First Officer’s most recent previous flight to Presque Isle had been five days earlier (27 Feb) and during the pre flight briefing prior to departure from Newark on the accident flight, he had mentioned that during the previous flight for which he had been PM, the runway 01 ILS LOC had been offset from the runway centreline when flying a visual approach. The flight north with the First Officer acting as PF was uneventful and Boston Centre cleared the flight for an ILS approach to runway 01 at Presque Isle before terminating radar service and instructing the flight to call on the