general impression in the industry is that nets need to be as tight as humanly possible this is incorrect. Neither the manufacturers, nor the aviation safety authorities nor IATA make any such requirement, and the correct procedure is that the net be tight but not overtight. The purpose of the net is to provide restraint against in flight forces, and it performs that function perfectly well without being pulled tight on installation. Over-tensioning a net will not only damage cargo but also may pull up the pallet edge rails making it hard or impossible to lock the pallet into the aircraft. Often loads may travel considerable distances by road to the nearest airport and it has become common practice to use the cargo net as a “ securing device” to hold the cargo in place during road transport. The design of the cargo net (a diamond mesh) is not suited to this purpose. Where there are doubts as to the stability of the load the loaders may use rope and other materials to stabilize and secure the load BEFORE placing the cargo net over the load. The purpose of the net is to ensure inflight safety NOT to prevent the cargo falling off the truck on its way to the airport. Never use a knife to cut a net. This damages an expensive airline asset and makes the net unserviceable.. NOTE: While the general impression in the industry is that nets need to be as tight as humanly possible this is incorrect. Neither the manufacturers, nor the aviation safety authorities nor IATA make any such requirement, and the correct procedure is that the net be tight but not overtight. The purpose of the net is to provide restraint against in flight forces, and it performs that function perfectly well without being pulled tight on installation.. Over-tensioning a net will not only damage cargo but also may pull up the pallet edge rails making it hard or impossible to lock the pallet into the aircraft.. Often loads may travel considerable distances by road to the nearest airport and it has become common practice to use the cargo net as a “ securing device” to hold the cargo in place during road transport. The design of the cargo net (a diamond mesh) is not suited to this purpose.. Where there are doubts as to the stability of the load the loaders may use rope and other materials to stabilize and secure the load BEFORE placing the cargo net over the load. The purpose of the net is to ensure inflight safety NOT to prevent the cargo falling off the truck on its way to the airport.. Never use a knife to cut a net. This damages an expensive airline asset and makes the net unserviceable.. Never hammer or in any way force a net fitting into the seat track as it will be impossible to remove at destination. If the fitting will not install easily check the seat track for dirt or