According to Section 107.19, “Remote Pilot in Command,” the remote pilot in command must ensure that the sUAS aircraft (or an object carried on board or dropped from it) will pose no undue hazard to other people, other aircraft, or other property in the event of a loss of control of the aircraft for any reason. Other sections of Part 107 focus on prohibiting certain sUAS aircraft operations, unless permissable waivers are granted by FAA, such as these examples: Operation of an sUAS at night is prohibited unless the remote pilot in command has completed an initial knowledge test or training after 6 April 2021, and the aircraft has lighted anti-collision lighted that complies with Part 107 (all FAA waivers that formerly authorised night operation terminated on 17 May 2021);. Since 15 January 2021, unless authorised by the FAA, no person may operate a small UAS under Part 107 with a transponder selected ON or with automatic dependent surveillance–broadcast (ADS-B Out) equipment selected to TRANSMIT mode;. Since 15 January 2021, a person may not manipulate the flight controls of a small UAS, or act as pilot in command or visual observer, in the operation of more than one UAS at a time;. Small UAS operations in Class G airspace do not require air traffic control authorisation. Operations in Class B, C or D airspace — or within the lateral boundaries of the surface area of Class E airspace designated for an aerodrome — require ATC authorisation;. No person may operate a civil sUAS unless it is in a condition for safe operation, including checking the sUAS prior to each flight and discontinuing flight when they know or have reason to the sUAS no longer is in a condition for safe operation;. The sUAS must not be operated in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another;. To conduct a visual line of sight aircraft operation under Part 107, the remote pilot in command, the visual observer (if used) and the person manipulating the flight control of the sUAS must be able to see the unmanned aircraft with unaided vision throughout the entire flight;. The sUAS can be flown during daylight or in U.S. civil twilight with Part 107–compliant, lighted anti-collision lighting (e.g., visible for at least three miles [five km]);. Minimum flight visibility must be no less than three miles as observed from the control station;. The sUAS aircraft groundspeed may not exceed 100 mph (87 kt);. The minimum distance of the sUAS aircraft from clouds must be no less than 500 feet below the cloud and 2,000 feet horizontally from the cloud;. The altitude of the sUAS aircraft may not exceed 400 feet above ground level. The exception is when the drone remains within a 400-foot radius of a structure and does not fly higher than 400 feet above the structure’s uppermost limit; and,. The remote pilot in command must report to the FAA — per the event criteria, data and instructions