Definitions of attention vary slightly depending on the field from which the definition is taken. All of the definitions, however, share the central theme of attention involving the concentration of thinking (cognitive processes) on a single object or thought to the exclusion of other stimuli or thoughts. In simpler terms, attention is the ability to focus and maintain interest in a given task or idea while avoiding distractions. Vigilance is a concept closely related to attention; in fact, the word attention is often used when defining vigilance. One definition of vigilance describes it as the process of paying close and continuous attention. It is often described as a quality or state of alertness or watchfulness. Vigilance can also be thought of as the extent of readiness to detect, or the likelihood of detecting, a stimulus that is imperative to safety. Several concepts related to attention and vigilance have been studied, and a well-informed crew should at least be familiar with the concepts: Overt versus covert attention. Overt attention is the act of directing the senses (vision, hearing, smell, etc.) toward a stimulus source to gather information. Covert attention is an internal act that involves mentally focusing on a particular stimulus to enhance the information once we have sensed a stimulus.. Selective attention. It involves focusing on a specific stimulus while ignoring other competing or distracting stimuli. Selective attention can be conscious or unconscious. Often a person can be selectively attending to an object without realizing it, especially if he or she is expert in the particular task where attention is required.. Controlled and automatic attention processes. Controlled processes of attention are those used when we are faced with a new task. These processes require effort and are limited by short-term memory. With training, attention becomes more automatic; i.e., it requires less effort and is not limited by short-term memory. This explains why after sufficient training we are able to do several things at the same time (e.g., listening to the radio while driving).. Sustained attention. It is the ability to direct and focus cognitive activity on specific stimuli for an extended period of time.. Alternating attention. It is exactly what it sounds like and refers to instances when an individual switches attention between tasks that require different thought processes.. Divided attention. It refers to instances when an individual must conduct multiple tasks at the same time, and the tasks compete for limited attention resources. This situation is often referred to as multitasking and can be very dangerous since attention resources are strained when an individual attempts to complete multiple tasks simultaneously..