Detecting a downburst is not easy. The effects are usually localised and, if the precipitation evaporates before reaching the ground (Virga), may not necessarily be associated with heavy rain or hail. Many airports, which experience regular severe thunderstorms, have systems in place to detect wind shear, often comprising anemometers in a network around the airport. In the USA, this system is known as low level wind shear alerting system (Low Level Wind Shear). A limitation of such systems is, of course, that it only detects wind shear at ground level. Hong Kong airport has a sophisticated system for detecting wind shear which combines a network of anemometers with Doppler weather radar and a Light Detection And Ranging (LIDAR) (Light Detection And Ranging) wind shear warning system which can detect the movement of much smaller particles, for example dust particles, than can a conventional weather radar and therefore can more effectively detect wind shear in dry air. This is particularly important at Hong Kong where wind shear is caused by terrain effects as well as weather. Many modern aircraft, such as the B777 Series, have predictive wind shear (PWS) warning systems which collect wind velocity data gathered by the weather radar to identify the existence of wind shear. These systems have a short range and are dependant on the radar picking up velocity data from water and ice particles ahead of the aircraft. In moist conditions, they are effective, providing the pilot with an opportunity to abort a take-off or to carry out a missed approach before encountering the shear zone; however, they do not work in dry conditions. Thorough weather briefings, contingency planning , appropriate use of the weather radar, listening to Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) at regular intervals, access to up to date actual weather conditions, warnings and forecasts, asking for reports from other pilots, as well as looking for the visual clues (cumulonimbus clouds, mammatus clouds, gust fronts, heavy precipitation, lightning, etc), and familiarity with local weather phenomena (at certain times of the year, some airports have predictable thunderstorm activity which can be avoided by careful scheduling of flights), all help to provide the flight crew with the best chance of avoiding downbursts and making the right decisions to safeguard the safety of the flight.