The ICAO NOSS manual suggests that the classroom training typically comprises (but is not limited to) the following: An overview of the NOSS methodology;. An explanation of where NOSS fits in the safety management activities of the organisation;. A detailed explanation of the Threat and Error Management (TEM) (TEM) framework;. Case studies to improve the understanding of the components of the TEM framework;. An explanation of the observation reporting forms including the code books for threats, errors and undesired states;. Examples of “good” and “poor” narratives in the reporting forms;. An explanation of the observation protocol, including “stop rules”;. Assignment of the locations and/or positions that will be observed to individual observers;. Communication arrangements with the facilitator and/or the project manager during the observation period;. Logistical details for observer travel and accommodation (if applicable).. The training of the observers consists of two main elements: Background Knowledge: This element concentrates on the knowledge of TEM required to conduct fruitful NOSS observations and provides instruction on how to use the observation tool to produce observation reports. Each element should be covered repeatedly to ensure a full understanding of the NOSS process and objectives. Without a solid theoretical knowledge of the TEM principles and NOSS processes, observers will struggle during the observation phase, which in turn will significantly affect confidence and motivation and, consequently, data quality.. Practical Observation Skills: This element provides training in the practical skills required to conduct useful observations. The skill training to support the observers should include, but not be limited to, the following: how to request an observation and how to deal with refusals; how to appear unobtrusive; how to take notes; how to answer questions; stop rules; observation duration; time management to complete observations and associated write-ups.. how to request an observation and how to deal with refusals;. how to appear unobtrusive;. how to take notes;. how to answer questions;. stop rules;. observation duration;. time management to complete observations and associated write-ups..