last performance check at the Medan Unit did not discuss unusual conditions or conditional clearance requirements. It was considered that information stored in the memory for long periods without use or rehearsal was very likely to be forgotten. It was also noted that serial inappropriate use conditional clearances over time without correction might well have led the controller to believe that his procedure was correct. The Contributory Factors which facilitated the collision were formally documented as “misunderstanding of the communication of a conditional clearance to enter runway by the ATR 72 pilots who were not aware that the 737 had received a landing clearance and the fact that ATC did not notice the ATR 72 entering the runway”. At the completion of the Investigation, no significant Safety Action beyond that taken by the parties involved in the immediate aftermath of the accident and recorded in the Preliminary Report was documented. The five initial Safety Recommendations included in the Preliminary Report were not also included in the Final Report and are reproduced below: that AirNav Indonesia ensure that air traffic controllers comply with the requirements of DGCA AC170-02 and ICAO Doc 9432 if a conditional clearance is used.[04.A-2017-25.1] that AirNav Indonesia ensure that air traffic controllers listen to (all) read-backs in order to ascertain that the clearance or instruction (given) has been correctly acknowledged by the pilot and must take immediate action to correct any discrepancies revealed by the read back. [04.A-2017-25.2] that AirNav Indonesia ensure that its air traffic controllers properly mitigate any hazard on the runway without delay (and specifically do so) prior to the issue of any takeoff or landing clearance. [04.A-2017-25.3] that Wings Airlines ensure that all its pilots read back or acknowledge clearances or instructions, including conditional clearances, in such a manner that clearly indicates that they have been understood and will be complied with.[04.O-2016-25.4] that Wings Airlines ensure that all its pilots understand and comply with air traffic controller instructions or clearances and that they must seek clarification when there is any uncertainty in respect of an instruction or clearance. [04.O-2016-25.5] The Final Report was released on 19 April 2018 and three additional Safety Recommendations followed on 26 April 2018 as follows: that AirNav Indonesia and the Halim Airport Operator inform aircraft operators to initiate takeoff from the displaced threshold of runway 24. [04.A-2016-57.1] that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation review a requirement for all aircraft movement on the manoeuvring area including the movement of aircraft under tow to communicate with the air traffic controller on the same frequency. [04.R-2016-55.1] that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation develop a procedure for vehicles and aircraft on the manoeuvring area which requires them to be equipped with serviceable lights visible to the air traffic controller. [04.A-2016-56.1] Related Articles Runway Incursion. Conditional Clearance Runway Incursions. Conditional Clearance. Visual Scanning Technique. Controller Detection of Manoeuvring Area Conflicts. Cross-checking Process. Crew Resource Management. Guidelines for Dealing with Unusual/Emergency Situations in ATC. Foreign Object Debris (FOD). Post-Incident Airport Operations. ATCO