aircraft commander attempting to fly using the Standby Instruments and performing poorly in that endeavour despite a record of successful recurrent training performance. Examination of the Standby AH after the event confirmed its “flawless function”. It was concluded that “the reason why the crew analysed the (failure on approach) situation inadequately is very probably that after the failure of the AP, A/T and FD they were convinced that they were confronted with the same problem as after the take-off in Nuremberg” and attributed the repeated failure of FGC functions to again be due to a FGC fault. This conclusion was not true even for the take-off failure, in Nuremberg but led to a preconceived opinion which supported the subsequent assumption of an unlikely simultaneous failure of two independent systems. Notwithstanding the absence of a CVR recording, other circumstantial evidence was considered to indicate that the context for some seven minutes of flight under the assumption that there was no useable heading information indicates that crew cooperation was deficient. This had meant that the actual failure of a single system could only be overcome with considerable difficulty. The formally stated Conclusion of the Investigation was that the event was attributable to: “the fact that after the failure of a single system the crew did not use the remaining systems appropriately and safe control of the aircraft was at times no longer guaranteed”. The Investigation identified the following Contributory Factors: The crew had a fundamentally unfounded picture about the technical problem causing the system failure.. After the loss of the autopilot, autothrottle and flight director, the First Officer did not manage to continue to control the aircraft manually.. The aircraft commander was able to fly the aircraft only to a limited extent with the aid of the standby instruments.. Crew resource management (CRM) was unsatisfactory.. The flight crew did not carry out a sufficient analysis of the situation.. An exercise which had been practised in the simulator using standby instruments and raw data could only be partially implemented in the actual case.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Relevant Authority, together with the manufacturer of the AVRO 146-RJ100 aircraft and the operators concerned should verify an upgrade with improved standby instruments. [Safety Recommendation 456]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency, together with the operators of aircraft, still equipped with electromechanical standby instruments, should examine whether their design still fulfils today's requirements with respect to ergonomics. If this is not the case, an update with improved standby instruments should be arranged. [Safety Recommendation 457]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should strive, together with the operators, (to ensure) that during checks and refreshers in the simulator, realistic scenarios (are used). [Safety Recommendation 458]. The Final Report of the Investigation Final Report No. 2158 was completed on 10 October 2012 and approved by the Board on 20 November 2012.