An Investigation was carried out by the Aviation Division of the Swiss AIB. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data as recorded was successfully downloaded but pitch and bank angle were missing for the incident part of the flight. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) CB was not tripped after the flight and so the relevant recording was overwritten. It was established that soon after take off from Nuremburg with the First Officer as PF still flying manually, an un-commanded simultaneous disconnection of the AP and FD had occurred which had been resolved by selecting the alternate FGC. During the subsequent cruise with the AP and A/T engaged, the previous FGC selection was restored with no abnormal apparent consequences. Having established on the Instrument Landing System (ILS) LLZ for runway 14 at destination at 4000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC), selection of Flap 18 was accompanied by failure of the AP FD and A/T. The aircraft commander was convinced that the Nuremberg take-off scenario was being repeated so he had immediately switched to the alternate FGC 1 and instructed the First Office to continue flying manually. A few seconds later Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) "Bank Angle" Alert activated and the First Officer reported that, since his PFD indicated level flight, he had looked across to the commander's instruments and observed that an unstable bank angle was displayed with ‘ATT’ and ‘HDG’ warning messages. As the aircraft approached 6nm from touchdown, ATC observed a sudden deviation from the LLZ and instructed the aircraft to ‘turn immediately right and climb immediately to four thousand feet’. The crew had then responded that they had a “navigation failure” and were instructed to climb to 5000 feet QNH. Indications on the First Officer’s Electronic Flight Instrument System displays remained stable and would have allowed the aircraft to be controlled manually but as he stated that he no longer trusted these indications, the aircraft commander took over control of the aircraft using standby instruments and also continued to conduct radio communications, advising ATC that heading reference was no longer available. ATC successively observed a high rate of descent followed by a similarly high rate of climb. DFDR data showed that during this period, the thrust levers had been repositioned over a wide range and airspeed had varied between 160 and 240 knots. ATC then suspended all other approaches into Zurich and kept the frequency in use clear so as to assist communications. Shortly afterwards, the crew declared a ‘PAN’ and advised that they had lost their primary navigation displays. Since it was impossible to estimate how the situation would develop, no further take-off clearances were given by air traffic control. Whilst the aircraft commander continued to have problems flying by reference to the standby instruments, the First Officer was actioning the QRH Checklist for ‘Loss of IRS’ and asked the aircraft commander to set the EFIS selector switch to "BOTH 2". This led to normal indications on the left side EFIS displays reappearing