and allowed the FD and A/T to be re-engaged. ATC were advised and thereafter provided normal radar positioning back to the runway 14 ILS and the remainder of the flight was uneventful. Based on the reported failure of the FD and A/T after take off, NVM memory from FGC 2 was analysed and was found to have stored an IRU1 fault, which corresponded to the FDR record. When similar symptoms occurred during the approach, IRU1 could be seen to have again malfunctioned with similar effects to after take off. Despite extensive bench testing, it was not possible to establish why this IRU had generated unstable data and then failed completely. It was noted that the same aircraft had suffered multiple but intermittent IRU instability ten days later, again with no definite faults subsequently identified. It was noted that the flight crew in the investigated event had connected the observed failures with the heavy rain which had prevailed before take-off in Nuremberg, referring to a 2009 technical information note supplied to pilots which, although it describes the failure of AP, AT and FD, as well as other systems, explains this as being caused by defective temperature measurement by the air data systems rather than the influence of moisture or water. However, in the light of difficulties in isolating ‘hard’ faults in unstable IRUs, it was considered that the investigated event “permits the conclusion that high humidity and the ingress of water into the IRUs caused these to generate unstable data”. It was accepted that this instability “may occur for only a short time and does not necessarily lead to a total failure of the IRUs” but would, regardless of which FGC was selected, lead to a failure of AP, AT and FD, as occurred immediately after take-off from Nuremberg. It was considered that the findings in respect of the subsequent flight when both IRUs malfunctioned at the same time which included the presence of traces of dust and water on all the printed circuit cards in one of the IRUs supported this hypothesis. Although at the time of the investigated incident, the Operator had been encountering various problems with the flight guidance system, these had until this incident seldom had an origin in the IRS, which arguably left flight crew with the false perception that in the case of failure of AP, AT and FD, a faulty FGC would be the likely cause in all cases and so selecting the other FGC would solve the problem. The Investigation made a review of the crew response sequence and accepted that, until the appearance of ‘ATT’ and ‘HDG’ warnings on the left hand PFD, these were reasonable. However these warnings constituted what should have been a clear indication that an FGC failure could no longer be the source of the problem. The confused response of both pilots instead of a simple validation of the right hand PFD against the SBY AH and continued flight by reference to the former had then left the