flaps…almost" which appeared to take the PF by surprise. The approach continued and at 300 feet agl, the airspeed was 154KIAS and the rate of descent on excess of 1000 fpm. In response to the automatic 200 feet agl call, the PF said (in French) "I see nothing" which was followed immediately by the PM saying (in French) "there's the runway". The PF subsequently remarked (in French) " [deleted], now it's impossible to see anything" and soon afterwards called and commenced a go around. ATC were advised and confirmed a standard missed approach. Thrust was set and the flap lever selection sequenced but the retraction of the landing gear was not called and it remained extended. As the aircraft speed exceeded 180 KIAS in the climb, the 'HIGH SPEED' warning sounded due to the flap position not being fully up. Radar vectoring to a second ILS approach to runway 10 followed with the 'FLAP FAULT' annunciation remaining and an approach with flaps jammed at around the Flap 1 position accepted and a Reference Speed (Vref) of 130 KIAS bugged based on the Flaps 3 Vref of 112 KIAS used for the first approach. The ILS LOC was captured when still above the GS. Speed control thereafter was made more difficult by interruption to commanded speedbrake deployment associated with a recurrence of the 'SPDBRK SW DISAG' annunciation which had begun following the flaps jamming after the brief attempt to select them to the 'FULL' position during the first approach. At 2330 feet QNH (equivalent to approximately 1000 feet aal) the airspeed was 162 KIAS and the rate of descent approximately 2000 fpm. An Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) 'TERRAIN' Alert sounded followed four seconds later by a 'PULL UP' Warning. No significant response followed but by the 400 feet agl auto callout, the airspeed was 153 KIAS and the rate of descent approximately1000 fpm - prompting the PF to say (in French) "….stabilised at the normal approach speed". A few seconds later an EGPWS 'TOO LOW TERRAIN' Alert was annunciated followed by 'TOO LOW FLAPS' and 'GLIDESLOPE' once below 200 feet agl. Touchdown with both MLG recording weight on wheels occurred at 135 KIAS approximately 450 metres after the runway threshold. After a 17 second landing roll, the aircraft reached the end of the runway at 44 KIAS and continued across the stopway deviating to the left before breaking through the perimeter fence at 39 KIAS and rolling across a public road into a maize field and coming to a stop after a further 10 metres. The assembled evidence indicated that at the time of touchdown, heavy rain had just ceased and water patches were visible on the runway surface. The crew reported that braking action had initially been normal but that brake application and directional control had then become impossible as the end of the runway was approached. However, FDR data showed that maximum brake pressure had not been applied until "shortly before reaching the runway end and 14