An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss AIB. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the CVDR (Cockpit Voice and Data Recorder). It was noted that although ATC communication took place in English, inter pilot conversation took place mainly in Arabic and French although some English was used. Appropriate translation assistance was accordingly obtained. The aircraft was found "badly damaged" during the overrun. The right main landing gear had collapsed and pierced the wing surface, causing significant damage to the wing. The fuel tank was also damaged and fuel had leaked from it. The lower fuselage and right wing, including the fuselage-wing fillet was "severely damaged". The 1500 metre long runway at St. Gallen-Altenrhein was found to have a displaced threshold so that the LDA was 1400 metres. In addition, approximately 60 metres of hard surface was available at both ends. The Runway End Safety Area of at least 90 metres as prescribed by ICAO for aerodromes with reference code number 3 (applicable to St. Gallen-Altenrhein) is not available. It was noted that the ILS GS for the runway 10 approach being flown was 4° which exceeds the maximum ICAO standard of 3.5° but , the published approach is not categorised because the runway does not meet the requirements for instrument approaches. It was established that the aircraft commander, who was also the Dalia Air Deputy Director of Flight Operations, had been the PF and although an experienced pilot had only 75 hours on the aircraft type. The First Officer, who was also the Dalia Air Quality and Flight Safety Manager, was also an experienced (ex-military transport) pilot but had only 465 hours on type. The weather conditions for both approaches to runway 10 (the alternative being a break from the 10 ILS to circle visually for runway 28) were assessed by the Investigation to have been "challenging". There was a significant tailwind component and until just before landing off the second approach, significant heavy rain associated with the passage of a cold front which had reduced visibility. However, it was nevertheless considered that "these conditions allowed a direct approach on runway 10 or a circling approach to runway 28". It was found that during the first of the two Instrument Landing System (ILS)/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) approaches which the crew had elected to make to runway 10 at destination (applicable DA / DH 1806 feet / 500 feet), the PF had called successively for Flaps 1, Flaps 2 and Full Flaps which had been selected and confirmed accordingly. However, recorded data showed that shortly before the aircraft reached 500 feet agl and between two and three seconds after selection to 'FULL', the selection had been changed to Flaps 3. This action led to a 'SPDBRK SW DISAG' annunciation followed shortly afterwards by an audio warning accompanied by 'FLAP FAIL'. The AP was disconnected at 500 feet and at 400 feet agl, the PM noted (in French) that "we have no