seconds after the weight on wheel signal had confirmed that the aircraft (was) on (the) ground". In respect of the aircraft crossing a public road during the overrun, the Investigation noted that only "a few seconds previously, a….public service bus licensed to carry 90 persons had travelled along the same road from south to north". The bus driver had later stated that he "had glimpsed an aircraft on his left, approaching the end of the runway at high speed" and had "recognised this as a hazard and therefore applied the accelerator pedal". In respect of the required landing distance and appropriate Vref at the prevailing ELW for both the expected normal approach onto a wet (although mainly grooved) runway and the actual almost flapless approaches to it, the Manufacturer's Pilots Operating Handbook (POH) carried on board provided a means to calculate both. The Investigation found the range 1438 - 1668 (factored) metres depending on the tailwind component for the intended (i.e.'normal') flap 3 approach flown at 113 KIAS and the range 1142 - 1318 (unfactored) metres for the abnormal case actually flown at 130 KIAS. The data source was conditional on a 3° approach at Vref in landing configuration, crossing the threshold at a height of 50 feet at idle thrust and maximum brake applied immediately after MLG touchdown. In respect of the flap jam which had occurred during the initial approach, it was established that the 'FULL' position is not certified for use. The effect of this selection had therefore been an invalid signal to the flap control unit which resulted in the flaps becoming jammed at approximately 10° and the FLAP FAIL annunciation being displayed. It was found that a mechanical stop that had been installed at the time of the aircraft delivery and was intended to prevent the use of the 'FULL' position was missing. The overall view of the Investigation was that there had been a widespread failure of the crew to follow SOPs and it was also considered that "analysis of the CVDR recordings does not in any way indicate cooperation in accordance with CRM principles as contained in the Operations Manual." It was further considered that the fact that the First Officer "was also the operator's Quality and Flight Safety Manager and…..was thus responsible for practical compliance with the procedures laid out and defined in the Operations Manuals" made the crew performance "even more incomprehensible". It was also considered that "the presentation of the published procedures and tables (in the QRH) did not offer pilots optimal assistance". The formal statement as the Causes of the Accident was as follows: "The accident is attributable to the fact that the aircraft touched down late and at an excessively high speed on the wet runway after an unstabilised final approach and consequently rolled over the end of the runway." The following Contributory Factors were also identified: The insufficient teamwork and deficient situation analysis by the crew.. The flaps remained jammed at approximately 10 degrees, a position that