The most severe events have the lowest probability of occurrence. Figure 3: Probability of space weather events versus impact on Earth Figure 3 presents the probability of occurrence depending on the magnitude of the event. Events have been separated into three different categories: “Usual bad space weather”: these events are quite common (several times a year) during the period of high solar activity, but the impact on earth infrastructures is very low, if noticeable at all.. “Severe to Extreme event”: these events occur between one and five times per 11-year solar cycle. The impact may be significant on infrastructure.. “Super-Extreme event”: these events are very rare and may happen only once every 100 to 500 years. One such event was recorded in 1859.. Communication: HF and, potentially, satellite communication may be degraded or temporally lost. As an example, on 7 September 2005, solar activity severely impacted all HF communications over the US. However, line of sight VHF was not significantly impacted.. Satellite failure: Potential loss of one or more satellites. Depending on which satellites are lost, the impact may vary significantly. As an example, the March 1989 space weather event may have caused the loss of four US Navy satellites.. GNSS-based navigation: En-route GNSS-based navigation might be lost in a contained area for a limited duration. GNSS-based landing systems (SBAS[3], GBAS[4]) may be unavailable for tens of hours. As an example, in October 2003 the US SBAS system (named WAAS[5]) was unavailable for 9 and 15 hours.. Surveillance: As a side-effect, GNSS-based surveillance applications[6] may be degraded.. Power failure: Potential power failure over part of a country for tens of hours. As an example, at 2.45 a.m. on 13 March 1989 the entire Quebec power grid collapsed and 6 million people suffered a power black-out for 9 hours.. Increase in the radiation level: Passenger and crew flying at high altitude and latitude may be exposed to a higher radiation level than usual. This increased level of radiation might also lead to onboard system failure. Actual impact is difficult to assess.. Communication: HF and, potentially, satellite communication could be temporally lost. However, line of sight VHF may not be impacted.. Satellite failure: From experts’ assessment, up to 50% of the space vehicles may be lost. Depending on which space vehicles are lost, impact can vary significantly.. GNSS-based navigation: Space vehicle failure combined with ionosphere storms may lead to a partial or complete loss of GNSS services.. Surveillance: As a side-effect, GNSS-based surveillance applications may be unavailable.. Power failure: Simulations on the US power grid estimated that 50% of the US may be under a power black-out. Similar results may happen over Europe. The recovery time may vary between dozens of hours to months, depending on the system failure.. Increase in the radiation level: Passenger and crew flying at high altitude and latitude may be exposed to a higher than usual radiation level. This increased level of radiation may also lead to onboard system failure. Actual impact is difficult to assess..