in and advised and confirmed that he was at 4000 feet, was aware of the need to descend to below 2500 feet before reaching the Danish mainland on his current track. A new squawk was given and correctly read back but incorrectly set. The error was seen and corrected, after which the Mode 'C' altitude appeared as 2000 feet on the radar display at Copenhagen Information and was presented continuously and correctly for the remainder of the flight. The Investigation noted the claim of the 172 pilot – that Mode 'C' had been selected on his transponder throughout the flight – but was unable to find any evidence of a fault in this function. The near miss had occurred in Swedish airspace delegated to Denmark for control purposes and after an unauthorised entry by the 172 into the Copenhagen TMA for which Copenhagen Control is the ATC authority. The controller responsible for this airspace advised having observed the track of the 172 without an altitude label, but had "perceived it to be an uncontrolled VFR flight flying below Copenhagen TMA" and for that reason had not considered it relevant to issue traffic information on it to the 738. It was noted that both the Swedish and Danish ATM systems had the capability to automatically couple the stored ATC flight plan of an aircraft with the radar track of the same aircraft. Such coupling required, amongst other requirements, that "the pre-assigned transponder code in the stored ATC flight plan was identical to the transponder code reply presented in the radar track and the radar track contained a Mode C altitude readout". Once all conditions were met, the aircraft label (registration or call sign) would then appear on the screen. In addition, it was also possible for a controller to achieve coupling between a radar label and a radar track without an altitude readout being present. In respect of the applicable generic right of way rules which had applied in case of the investigated conflict, it was noted that the following 'General Rules' detailed in ICAO Annex 2 Chapter 3 had applied to the 738 but had not been followed: Converging: When two aircraft are converging at approximately the same level, the aircraft that has the other on its right shall give way.. Overtaking: An overtaking aircraft is an aircraft that approaches another from the rear on a line forming an angle of less than 70 degrees with the plane of symmetry of the latter, i.e. is in such a position with reference to the other aircraft that at night it should be unable to see either of the aircraft’s left (port) or right (starboard) navigation lights. An aircraft that is being overtaken has the right-of-way and the overtaking aircraft, whether climbing, descending or in horizontal flight, shall keep out of the way of the other aircraft by altering its heading to the right, and no subsequent change in the relative positions of the two aircraft shall absolve the overtaking aircraft from