this obligation until it is entirely past and clear.. An aircraft that is obliged by these rules to keep out of the way of another shall avoid passing over, under or in front of the other, unless it passes well clear and takes into account the effect of aircraft wake turbulence.. The formal statement of Factors relevant to the event identified the following: During the sequence of events, ATC and TCAS of the 738 did not receive mode C information from the transponder of the 172.. Due to the passenger becoming sick, the focus of the pilot of the 172 was diverted from flying the aircraft.. Without authorisation, the 172 penetrated Copenhagen TMA.. A seeming misperception by the pilots of the 738 of the horizontal separation influenced their decision on not making an appropriate avoiding action.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event was documented as follows: The Danish and Swedish ANSPs introduced the Prefix speed “N” in the radar label of aircraft using Mode A transponder function only seen by controllers, in order to prevent them mistaking the aircraft altitude indication for the aircraft speed indication.. The Danish and Swedish ANSPs and the joint subsidiary of the Danish and Swedish ANSPs met with the Swedish Transport Agency and the Danish Transport Authority in order to conduct an information campaign regarding airspace rules and regulations for VFR pilots.. The joint subsidiary of the Danish and Swedish ANSPs reviewed the EUROCONTROL initiative European Action Plan for Airspace Infringement Risk Reduction in order to ensure that “Best Practices” were adhered to.. The Danish and Swedish ANSPs implemented an Airspace Intrusion Warning (AIW) on 22 January 2015. This is a ground (radar) based tool which warns the controller about an unauthorized penetration of a defined airspace volume. One critical input to this system is the aircraft transponder transmitting Mode C information. If the system predicts an imminent threat of intrusion or an actual intrusion is detected, an alarm is presented to the controller.. With the status of Suggestions, The Danish AIB stated that they would like to encourage: VFR pilots to conduct the en route part of their flight according to published VFR cruising levels, e.g. 3.500 or 4.500 feet, even when flying below transition altitude (TA).. VFR pilots to at any time during flight activate the Mode C function of the aircraft transponder (if so equipped).. All pilots to take into account the ICAO “Rules of the air”, Chapter 3 “General Rules” during all phases of flight.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 28 November 2015. No Safety Recommendations were made.