Try to maintain an optimum level of vigilance within your team by continuous observation which will allow you to split or band-box sectors in good time.. Be aware of the fact that, in order to do your task, it is as essential to be vigilant as it is for an ATCO.. Give controllers training for low and “gear-shift” (e.g. sharp decline in traffic level) workload patterns over extended periods (e.g. > 2 hours).. Develop “defensive control” strategies and training.. Restrict unnecessary visitors, particularly in high workload or when training is being undertaken.. Make sure that controllers can not be distracted by activities such as watching television or listening to the radio in the ops room.. Make sure that all ATCOs receive adequate breaks during their period of duty.. Ensure that comfortable rest facilities are available, so that ATCOs can relax and refresh themselves between periods of duty.. Ensure that filtered water is available at all times in the operational environment. Hydration has a profound affect on vigilance. Coffee and tea act as dehydrators although do have a stimulant affect.. Try to avoid excessively high or very low workload by splitting or band-boxing in good time.. Be on your guard against complacency, especially when using high quality automation, to ensure that you are able to detect and act on any error or malfunction promptly, particularly when automation is affected by intermittent faults which are difficult to detect.. Do not allow yourself to be distracted by non-essential conversation or by extraneous noise. Speak up if these situations do occur and ask for the sources to be removed from the ops room.. Do not watch television in the ops room when colleagues are working within hearing or visual range of the TV.. Do ensure you have adequate sleep, especially before a period of night duty.. Do anticipate reduced vigilance brought on by fatigue; look out for the symptoms of tiredness and request a break.. Effective teamwork is often the only mitigation for vigilance errors - develop effective team resource management programs..