and still had the ICAO airport code it had previously had, it can be assumed that this destination (FLND) rather than that the new locator code for the new airport (FLSK) was would have been entered into the navigation equipment on board the aircraft and followed. The Investigation identified a long list of inadequacies in the process under which the relocation of the Simon Mansa Kapwepwe International Airport (SMKIA) had been managed. These included the following: Despite the old airport having been handed over to the Zambian Air Force, no interim airspace restrictions had been introduced to keep unsuspecting civil traffic from mistakenly landing there.. The same location Indicator and all published procedures for the old airport under its civil locator code FLND were still active at the time of incident.. Risk analysis in respect of the airport move conducted by both the CAA and the Zambia Air Ports Corporation teams was not used to examine the efficacy of air space management arrangements in respect of the two airports.. The Zambian Air Force was unable to provide the Investigation with any Standard Operating Procedures for their newly-acquired air base.. There was no evidence of any MoU or other agreement between the Zambia Airports Corporation (ZACL) and the Zambian Air Force as operators of the two airports once the changeover had begun.. The AIS provision in both DR Congo and Zambia on the matter of the changes at Ndola appeared to have been inadequate: the Goma airport authorities there had not made NOTAMs on the matter available and the flight plan filed, which specified the Ndola stop as FLND (the identifier for the old airport which had not been altered with the change to military only use).. Lubumbashi airport also had no NOTAMs on the airport changeover and personnel there did not adequately check the flight plan filed at Goma.. The flight crew applied for the necessary airspace flight permit to fly from Goma to Ndola (FLND) and it was approved by the Zambian Government through the Zambia Air Force.. Zambian Air Force Operations did not notice the airport identification error during the approval process.. Provision of ATC at the new airport was not in accordance with applicable procedures there (and more generally) in that the VFR flight under investigation was given a landing clearance despite the fact that it had not been acquired visually - whilst it was reportedly hazy, the METAR for FLSK (SMKIA) was giving CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK). The Performance of the Flight Crew was deficient in that despite several references to runway 09 for landing, they did not query what should have been recognised as anomalous as the landing runway at the old airport which the Captain was familiar with and intended to land at was 10 not 09. Based on the various findings of the Investigation, a number of ‘Observations’ - some directly related to what happened or incidental discoveries not so related - were made including but not limited to the following: Navigation