A Serious Incident Investigation into the event was carried out by the Zambian Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB). It was noted that the Captain was a Belgian national who held an ATPL (airline transport pilot licence) issued by the Congolese Civil Aviation Authority and had a total of 22,000 hours flying experience of which about 5000 hours were on type and was familiar with the former Ndola International airport. The First Officer held a CPL (commercial pilot licence) issued by the Congolese Civil Aviation Authority and had a total of 500 hours flying experience including about 100 hours on type. The flight was to position the aircraft from Goma to Lanseria where scheduled maintenance was to be carried out. Intermediate stops were planned at Ndola and Bulawayo and a VFR flight plan had been filed for each sector. In the case of Ndola, the former international airport ICAO identifier, FLND - which had been retained by the military - was used when filing the flight plan with the Goma authorities. After almost four hours airborne after departure from Goma, the flight was transferred from Lusaka Control to the Ndola APP frequency and was cleared to continue to Simon Mwansa Kapwepwe International Airport (SMKIA). When 28 nm away, the flight requested descent from FL125 and was cleared to 5000 feet to report runway in sight. Fifteen minutes later, the flight reported on left base leg for the runway in use (09) and was transferred to Ndola TWR where the controller cleared it to final and gave a spot wind and a caution on bird activity. The flight was subsequently cleared to land despite the controller not seeing the aircraft on final approach and making several unsuccessful attempts to contact it. The APP controller then called the TWR controller and advised that the aircraft was on ground at the Peter Zuze Military Airport, the former International Airport located 8nm to the South East of the new airport. The pilots only realised after landing that they had landed at a military base having not seen any NOTAM about the recent airport location change. The Captain expressed surprise that none of the Zambian controllers who had handled the flight had made mention that the airport had just moved to a new location with its old name radio frequencies. The aircraft was subsequently able to take off for the short flight to the new airport. The Duty military controller at the airbase stated he had been surprised to see an aircraft not on his frequency landing but a call was received from the SKMIA Senior Air Traffic Control Officer (SATCO) asking if an aircraft which had been working their TWR frequency but had not landed had done so at the old airport and this was confirmed to have happened. It was considered probable that the en-route navigation of the flight was reliant on GPS-backed navigation equipment. Since the flight had been planned to the airport which the crew believed was (still) the Ndola International Airport