unusual attitude recoveries from nose low and nose high positions" with one section dealing specifically with normal and abnormal emergency situations in relation to anti-icing and de-icing systems, SPS and Stick Pusher operation. In addition, it was noted that the Operator's Advanced Aircraft Maneuvering Program (AAMP) included "a review of phenomena that cause upset events and unusual attitude recovery procedures". However, when a number of American Eagle pilots, including the incident Captain and First Officer, were interviewed during the Investigation, they all stated that they had "never practiced encountering a stall in icing conditions as part of their simulator training" and "could not recall ever having the opportunity to practice a complete stall in the simulator, as they were always instructed to recover at the first indication of an impending stall". The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the onset of a stall ahead of SPS activation, the upset and the uncommanded upward deflection of the ailerons had been caused by ice accretion on the wing in Supercooled Large Droplet (SLD) conditions. It was considered that the cause of the simultaneous upward deflection of the ailerons was airflow separation over them, as was known to have occurred in similar accidents and incidents involving the modification of aileron forces by SLD ice accretion. Four Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the FAA should require all operators of Saab SF340 series airplanes to instruct pilots to maintain a minimum operating airspeed of 1.45 x Vs during icing encounters and before entering known or forecast icing conditions and to exit icing conditions as soon as performance degradations prevent the airplane from maintaining 1.45 x Vs. (A-06-48). that the FAA should require the installation of modified stall protection logic in Saab SF340 series airplanes certified for flight into known icing conditions. (A-06-49). that the FAA should require the installation of an icing detection system on Saab SF340 series airplanes. (A-06-50). that the FAA should require all operators of turbo propeller-driven airplanes to instruct pilots to disengage the autopilot and fly the airplane manually when operating in icing conditions. (A-06-51). Two earlier Safety Recommendations were also reiterated: that the FAA should convene a panel of airplane design, operations, and aviation human factors specialists to determine whether a requirement for the installation of low-airspeed alert systems in airplanes engaged in commercial operations under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 121 and 135 would be feasible. (A-03-53). that the FAA should, if the panel (as recommended in A-03-53) determines that a requirement as investigated would be feasible, establish requirements for low-airspeed alert systems. (A-03-54). The Probable Cause of the investigated event was determined as: "An in-flight loss of control due to ice accreted in Supercooled Liquid Droplet (SLD) conditions, and the flight crew's failure to maintain the specified minimum airspeed in icing conditions. Contributing to the accident was the flight crew's decision to climb the airplane in known and forecast icing conditions using an autopilot mode contrary to that specified