An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. FDR data was successfully downloaded. It was established that the 34 year-old Captain had 6765 hours total flying experience including 3981 hours on type. The 32 year-old First Officer had 1367 hours total flying experience including 132 hours on type. It was found that the flight had departed into icing conditions with the continuous mode of the pneumatic boot airframe de-ice system inoperative in accordance with the MEL which would have required manual operation of the system. The Captain initially acted as PF with the intention of transferring this role to the First Officer after completing the Climb Checklist. The applicable minimum clean speed in icing conditions for the flight was calculated as 141 KIAS. Shortly after taking over as PF at 2,500 feet, the First Officer selected VS mode for the AP. Although the Captain reported having noted "light rime ice accumulating on the windshield wiper blades and about a 1/2-inch-wide area of ice on the left wing" he did not notice a concurrent progressive decrease in indicated airspeed as airframe ice accumulated. At 11,700 feet "as he began to activate the manual device boot system", the Captain reported feeling a "heavy vibration in the airframe and the windscreen immediately turned white with ice". The aircraft nose and left wing dropped and the AP disconnected, then the Stall Protection System (SPS) was activated and the EGPWS annunciated a 'Bank Angle' alert. FDR data showed that in the 26 seconds prior to this upset, speed reduced from 144 KIAS to 130 KIAS and did so at an increased rate in the final 10 seconds. The aircraft was found to have departed controlled flight from a pitch attitude of 14ยบ up prior to the SPS activation and thereafter performed "a series of roll and pitch excursions, reaching maximum values of 86 degrees left wing down, 140 degrees right wing down, 23 degrees nose up and 40 degrees nose down" before the flight crew recovered control at 6500 feet QNH. The data also showed that "14 seconds after the initial stall, both ailerons simultaneously traveled to the full up position for approximately 14 seconds". It also recorded that the minimum airspeed of 105 knots occurred shortly before controlled flight was regained after the aircraft had descended at an average rate of around 4000 fpm. It was noted that although the IAS mode was the only authorised FD mode for climb in the icing conditions which had prevailed, the VS mode had been used which allowed the AP to reduce airspeed to maintain the selected rate of climb. It was also noted that the fact that the AP was engaged had masked the correction of a slight rolling motion which had occurred 26 seconds prior to the loss of control which might otherwise have alerted the crew to the speed decay which was occurring. The Operator's recurrent simulator training syllabus was found to include "approach to stalls in the takeoff, clean, and landing configurations and