There are two sets of barriers to prevent an occurrence from developing into an accident. Prevention barriers are used to avert the event and mitigation barriers are intended to soften the situation when an undesirable event has happened. The most common prevention barriers are: Triggers for pilots to check landing clearance: An SOP to select the landing/taxi lights on only when a landing clearance is received; The inclusion of an item in the landing check-list; An SOP to do so at an existing fixed point in an approach such as at a height-defined stabilisation gate.. An SOP to select the landing/taxi lights on only when a landing clearance is received;. The inclusion of an item in the landing check-list;. An SOP to do so at an existing fixed point in an approach such as at a height-defined stabilisation gate.. Introducing an SOP which requires that two-way contact is established on each new frequency before the pre-select frequency is changed;. Procedures and/or visual aids to help correct runway identification by pilots: Making sure that the correct runway and/or approach procedure are entered into aircraft on-board systems and that the information is displayed to both pilots; Pilot positive visual identification of the correct runway (except in Cat 2/3 conditions); Signs and markings to clearly indicate closed runway.. Making sure that the correct runway and/or approach procedure are entered into aircraft on-board systems and that the information is displayed to both pilots;. Pilot positive visual identification of the correct runway (except in Cat 2/3 conditions);. Signs and markings to clearly indicate closed runway.. Procedures and/or visual aids to alert pilots and controllers of runway availability and landing clearance status: Provision of an automatic alert to the pilot when a runway is occupied (e.g. FAROS); Other means for controllers to alert pilot to the absence (or existence) of a landing clearance (e.g. the availability of a selectable visual alert illuminated close to touchdown); The availability of an effective controller memory aid to annunciate whether landing clearances have been issued or not; System supported ATCO detection of aircraft about to land without clearance or on the wrong runway with one (e.g. ASMGCS and RIMCAS).. Provision of an automatic alert to the pilot when a runway is occupied (e.g. FAROS);. Other means for controllers to alert pilot to the absence (or existence) of a landing clearance (e.g. the availability of a selectable visual alert illuminated close to touchdown);. The availability of an effective controller memory aid to annunciate whether landing clearances have been issued or not;. System supported ATCO detection of aircraft about to land without clearance or on the wrong runway with one (e.g. ASMGCS and RIMCAS).. Controller visual detection: Of an aircraft about to land without clearance; Of an aircraft about to land on a runway other than the one for which clearance has been given.. Of an aircraft about to land without clearance;. Of an aircraft about to land on a runway other than the one for which clearance has been given.. Specific