The event was notified to the Portuguese Accident Investigation Agency (GPIAAF) by Porto Airport operations the following day and an in-depth Serious Incident Investigation was commenced. Relevant recordings of ground radar, TWR voice communications and CCTV around the time of the event were available to the Investigation. Whist it was in progress, another similar vehicle-on-runway/aircraft conflict occurred at Ponta Delgada on 13 May 2022 and this was taken into account from that point on because of some apparent commonality of contributing factors. It was noted that the TWR Controller involved was the Shift Supervisor. He had been a controller for 18 years and at Porto for 14 years and had been promoted to Supervisor in 2014. On the day of the investigated event, he was responsible for a team of 3 controllers on the afternoon shift, one of whom was working with a trainee. In the light of a lower than normal number of movements, he had scheduled controllers as considered appropriate for the shift. Initially, the controller and trainee were in position and relieved during their break by a third controller who then left (he lived nearby and had agreed with the Supervisor to return if required). Almost two hours later, the Supervisor arrived and took over from the instructor and trainee who then left. The Supervisor took over alone and continued until the first night shift controller arrived as the investigated event was in progress. By this time, he had been “on duty for approximately four hours without taking the mandatory breaks”. The vehicle driver had 2½ years experience as airport operations officer at Porto and on the day of the event he was one of four operations officers and had been assigned airside ramp and runway inspection duties. The runway inspection which led to the conflict was his first of the shift but the fourth and final one of the day. He had not received any formal training on the use of the frequency scanner radio installed in the Follow-Me vehicles at Porto airport and used for airside communication with ATC. The aircraft flight crew had operated the early morning flight from Liege to Porto and they had then been off duty until the report time for the return leg to Liege. Two minutes after the Boeing 737-400 had called on Porto TWR frequency for its departure clearance, the TWR controller had received a call from a Follow-Me vehicle on a discrete separate radio channel, ‘TETRA’, routinely used for such communications for permission to carry-out a routine runway inspection. This was approved and about a minute later, the vehicle entered the runway at taxiway ‘B’ and began its inspection by heading north in the centreline of runway 35 (see the illustration below). Whilst this runway inspection was in progress, the 737-400 and another departure requested and received their departure clearances and ten minutes after the vehicle had entered the runway, the 737-400 called for and received taxi clearance to hold short of runway 35 at taxiway ‘B’,