a clearance which was immediately modified on crew request to hold at taxiway ‘D’ instead. This re-clearance only involved a very short taxi distance and a minute later, the flight reported ready for takeoff on taxiway ‘D’, and was so cleared. An annotated overview of Porto Airport. [Reproduced from the Official Report] At the time the clearance was given, the inspection vehicle had reached the end of runway 35 and was making a 180° turn in order to head south and inspect the western side of the runway. The 737 entered the runway and began its takeoff roll almost immediately unaware of the vehicle. After about 15 seconds of the 737’s takeoff run, the vehicle driver, having seen bright lights ahead on the runway contacted the TWR controller via the discrete communication system and asked whether an aircraft was “lining up on the runway” and after a further 10 seconds received the response which was the aircraft was taking off and the driver should “try and quickly vacate to the left”. After a brief pause, the driver responded that he was already off the edge of the runway. Soon after this, the aircraft became airborne shortly before reaching the vehicle. The crew subsequently reported having observed the vehicle at a late stage and decided that a continued takeoff would get them airborne before reaching it and was preferable to conducting a high speed rejected takeoff. During the conflict another TWR controller entered the control room in preparation for beginning his shift ten minutes later. Once the aircraft was safely airborne, the aircraft Captain and the controller discussed what had happened and agreed that both would file formal reports on the occurrence. The situation as the aircraft overflew the vehicle is shown in the illustration below. The Captain’s subsequent written report stated that only at lift off had they noticed white headlights from a moving vehicle next to the left edge of the runway, which were similar to and confusing with the white edge runway lights. The crew did stated that they could not recall seeing any flashing-yellow obstacle beacon on the vehicle. The closest relative positions of the vehicle and the departing aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] After gathering and analysing all relevant information, the Investigation summarised its principal relevant findings as follows: The on-duty controller had been working alone in the tower position, acting both as aerodrome control and providing approach control service uninterruptedly, without any break, for about four hours when the event occurred.. There was no independent alerting system in place and the existing controller memory aid procedures were, under the circumstances, ineffective in reminding the controller of the presence of the Follow-Me vehicle, which had earlier been authorised to be on the runway.. Communication of the aircraft and the Follow-Me vehicle with ATC occurred on different radio systems (the aeronautical frequency and the ‘TETRA’ communication system, respectively), thereby disabling awareness of one-another’s presence in the manoeuvring area.. The exercise of a Supervisor’s prerogative to tactically