lack of a single frequency for all aircraft and vehicle movements in the manoeuvring area (as recommended by EAPPRI, and others) which would allow both flight crew and ground vehicle drivers to be aware of any possible threats to safety.. Unreliability of the radio scanners which were installed by the infrastructure management in the Follow-Me vehicles at Porto airport, which were not user friendly and for which no formal training had been given to the drivers on how to operate them.. The ‘Follow-Me’ driver’s decision not to actively monitor the aeronautical frequency even though it was not a mandatory requirement.. The non-standardised manner of conducting the runway inspections which, in this case, resulted in a prolonged period of ‘TETRA’ radio silence.. Safety Action known to have been taken during the course of the Investigation was noted to have included the following: NAV Portugal introduced a new complementary method to indicate the presence of vehicles on the runway at Porto TWR consisting of a large “runway occupied” sign, covering the wind velocity display similar to the method already in use at Faro and subsequently formalised this procedure at all airports.. NAV Portugal introduced a requirement for all ATS units in the Lisbon FIR to adopt the digital positions log system and follow strict associated procedures including shift supervisors validating them and submitting them to the central database by the end of the shift.. NAV Portugal provided explicit procedures for Shift Supervisors open and shut controller positions and added a requirement that whenever human resources allow, a minimum of two TWR positions should always be open.. NAV Portugal installed MLAT at Porto and made it available for operational use (although no information on related changes in procedures was supplied to the GPIAAF).. Aeroportos de Portugal (ANA) introduced a requirement for any vehicle operating in or around the manoeuvring area to permanently listen-in on the TWR frequency irrespective of the prevailing visibility (but noted that this will only be fully possible when all of the Follow-Me vehicles have been fitted with radios capable of receiving transmissions on this frequency).. Aeroportos de Portugal (ANA) updated the Aerodrome Manual to require that all committees at Porto airport, including the Runway Safety Committee meet at least three times each year and that the meetings of the following year are all scheduled at the last meeting of the current year.. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that NAV Portugal, within six months, establish a plan and timeline for implementation across all units, in the shortest time possible, reliable systems which are independent from the on-duty controller intervention for alerting and detection of conflict when a runway is occupied, fully implementing the recommendations of EAPPRI v3.0 pertaining to Air Traffic Control. While the necessary technological resources of proven efficiency are not available, NAV Portugal must immediately ensure the implementation of the mitigation measures that result from a risk assessment that takes into account, among other aspects, the human factors involved and