the lessons learned from the events described in this report. [PT.SIA 2022/002]. that NAV Portugal, within twelve months, review its policy for the supervision of aerodrome control activities, reviewing and amending, as applicable, its manuals and procedures so that the services provided by the different units will not be provided without effective supervision of the on-duty controller(s). In cases where it is accepted that the service is provided by a single controller in the tower, such decision process must be duly justified, documented and approved by the unit’s manning procedure in force at NAV Portugal and duly approved by the Regulator. [PT.SIA 2022/003]. that NAV Portugal, within three months, review and amend procedures regarding a Supervisor’s responsibility for operational tactical management to ensure that manning levels never fall below that which has been allocated and approved through a certified process by the Authority and ANAC for the shift and that any adjustment, if required, is made in excess (only) to respond to exceptional unforeseen circumstances, while observing maximum duty periods without a break. [PT.SIA 2022/004]. that NAV Portugal, within six months, carry out a transversal and exhaustive survey of the competence of its Safety and Security Department, evaluating and discerning each of its functions and take the measures considered necessary to review its safety management system (SMS) in order to ensure that the implemented processes in all its units fully comply with the PART-ATS requirements. Namely, NAV Portugal should reassess its compliance monitoring function, making it robust, independent and effective so as to ensure full compliance with the applicable civil aviation regulations and harmonisation of internal procedures in all activities for which it is responsible. [PT.SIA 2022/005]. that NAV Portugal, within three months adopt, in all units, a sterile control room concept by implementing and enforcing measures which include a no-tolerance policy towards the presence of mobile devices or any other device likely to create distraction at controller workstations and control rooms and by imposing strict rules restricting the presence of non-active staff and conversations unrelated to the activity taking place in the control room. [PT.SIA 2022/006]. that ANA Aeroportos de Portugal as operator of Porto Airport, within six months install and certify reliable and user-friendly air-band equipment in Follow-Me vehicles, to allow the effective implementation of the requirements of Operations Letter No. 3 at Porto and which also allow the future implementation of a common frequency for all movements of vehicles and aircraft in the manoeuvring area. [PT.SIA 2022/007]. that ANA Aeroportos de Portugal as operator of Porto Airport, within three months harmonise procedures for runway inspections and provide guidance material to Follow-Me operators on the routes to follow thereby establishing for each runway a reference duration which will aid the situational awareness of air traffic controllers. [PT.SIA 2022/008]. that ANAC (the Portuguese CAA) follow through on Regulation no. 8/2018 in the shortest possible time by enforcing the provisions of paragraph(s) of Article 8 which require ANSPs to ensure that there are clear and effective procedures in place to