manage his team is based on procedures which are ambiguous such that in practice the make-up of teams is done irrespective of the plan for the period they have been rostered for, without guidance material and risk analysis for the decision making.. The failure to detect systemic non-compliance with the maximum duty period without a break by controllers and their supervisors.. The absence of Safety Review Board meetings associated with a consistent lack of formal provision of safety information to the Accountable Manager significantly undermines the ability of ANSP leadership team to effectively exercise its prerogative of operational safety supervision.. “Silo culture” from the leadership of the individual towers (and units) prevented the implementation of operational, managerial and safety best practices implemented elsewhere, unrelated to local specifics.. The absence of an unambiguous, independent and effective compliance monitoring processes at NAV Portugal, meant a lack of oversight and convergence in terms of operational, control and safety best practices amongst units.. Deficiencies in the organisation and management system of the ANSP and its implementation of the Part-ATS requirements went undetected by ANAC.. The Probable Cause was formally documented as “air traffic control’s issuance of a take-off clearance to the Boeing 737 despite having earlier authorised a ‘Follow-Me’ vehicle onto the runway to perform a runway inspection”. A total of 15 Contributing Factors were also identified as follows: The provision of air traffic services with unified tower and approach positions, provided by a single controller without any supervision, working in continuous duty without interruptions for an extended period of time, in a tedious and low-activity environment.. An archaic memory aid system, ineffective and totally dependent on human action to prevent simultaneous use of the runway by vehicles and aircraft.. An inactive runway incursion monitoring and conflict alert system (RIMCAS).. The decision process on the application/inhibition of technological tools, in particular the inhibition of RIMCAS, without a risk analysis supported by facts or mitigation measures to allow such inhibition.. The absence of advanced ATC surveillance systems, including multilateration and electronic flight strips which can offer additional protection when compared with traditional, entirely human-dependent systems.. The absence of H24 stop bars procedure or other equivalent lighting systems at all runway holding positions, as recommended by EAPPRI for ANSPs.. The absence of objective criteria set by the organisation for the tactical management of teams by supervisors, based on risk assessment in order to ensure that the required level of safety is not compromised.. A deficient organisational culture at the ANSP resulting in misrepresentation of the position logs not in line with reality.. NAV Portugal’s failure to oversee and detect operational, managerial and safety shortcomings over the different Units, namely at Porto and Ponta Delgada towers.. Deficiencies in NAV Portugal’s safety management system, just culture and its compliance with the requirements of Part ATS were not identified by the regulator.. The Regulator’s shortfall in properly supervising the Runway Safety Committees at Porto and Ponta Delgada airports, ensuring effectiveness of their activities and compliance with Regulation 8/2018.. The