include an objective related to preventing runway incursions”. More generally, it was observed that “the TSB is concerned that the rate of runway incursions in Canada and the associated risks of collision will remain until effective defences tailored to address identified hazards are implemented at airports and in aircraft, vehicles, and air traffic service facilities across Canada”. Based on the evidence available, the following observations were made: If airport vehicle drivers do not follow required communication procedures, there is increased risk of a runway incursion due to a lack of adequate awareness of other aerodrome users.. If airport vehicles on the runway are not sufficiently conspicuous, they may not be seen by flight crew, increasing the risk of potential collisions.. If airport vehicle driver training programmes do not address common operational scenarios, there is increased risk that such personnel will lack the knowledge needed to safely conduct their duties.. When airport operators’ training plans are not fully implemented, there is increased risk that airport vehicle operators will miss important actions, compromising safety.. If proactive hazard identification and mitigation strategies are not implemented under an airport SMS, the risk of incursions and collisions will remain.. The three formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: Although a radio functionality check was required before entering the manoeuvring area, per the Airport Vehicle Operator Permit (AVOP) Study Guide, the truck driver (Operator 1) did not conduct one. As a result, Operator 1 did not realise that the radio volume had been turned down to a level that prevented effective communication.. The truck driver (Operator 1) did not broadcast the vehicle position or his intentions when changing location on the runway, contrary to what is required by Transport Canada’s Aerodrome Standards and Recommended Practices (TP 312). Broadcasting the vehicle’s position and the operator’s intentions would have greatly increased the chances of the flight crew becoming aware of his presence.. The sun, low on the horizon, reflected off the wet runway, creating a solar glare condition that diminished the flight crew’s ability to detect the airport vehicle on the runway.. Six formally-stated Findings as to Risk were also identified as follows: If users of a Mandatory Frequency are not required to confirm that their broadcasts are heard and understood in an airport environment, there is a risk that movements will be made without the knowledge of other users, which could lead to a collision.. If airport vehicle operators do not follow communication procedures, there is increased risk of a runway incursion due to inaccurate awareness of other aerodrome users.. If airport vehicles are not conspicuous, they may not be seen by flight crew, increasing the risk of potential collisions.. If training programs for airport vehicle operators do not address common operational scenarios, there is increased risk that airport vehicle operators will lack the knowledge needed to safely conduct their duties.. When airport operators’ training plans are not fully implemented, there is an increased risk that airport vehicle operators will take inappropriate actions