immediately applied full reverse and begun maximum braking. They reported that the aircraft had begun to skid as a result of the heavy braking but that they had been able to maintain control. On seeing the landing aircraft, the pickup truck driver reported accelerating in order to reach a taxiway and exit the runway and was just able to do so before the aircraft passed the taxiway intersection he had used 4 seconds later. The aircraft then completed its landing roll, backtracked and taxied to the apron without further event. The Investigation found that the minimum separation between the landing aircraft and the pickup truck prior to it exiting the runway had been 228 metres and that the closing speed at the point the pickup truck was about to turn off the runway had been 63 knots - made up of the aircraft decelerating through 45 knots and the truck travelling at 18 knots. After the pickup truck driver had parked his truck next to the apron, he reported having discovered that the volume control on his vehicle’s VHF radio had been turned down so low that transmissions made on the MF frequency would have been inaudible. The flight crew reported that their approach had been into sun and that they had both lowered their sun visors to combat solar glare from the wet runway surface. The effectiveness of the SMS at Trail Airport, which was a regulatory requirement, was examined. It was found that although the airport’s SMS Policy Manual required that “a review of hazards is conducted […] when major changes occur at the Airport (i.e. changes to staff, equipment, air carrier frequency, aircraft type or destination)” no such review was completed prior to an increase in the number of Pacific Coastal Airlines’ flights into Trail for the 2018 winter. It was noted that the difficulty which the flight crew had in detecting the presence of the pickup truck on the runway earlier than they did may, since the ground surrounding the runway was snow-covered, have been partially a result of the fact that although its flashing beacon and daytime running lights were on, it was painted white and, contrary to the applicable SOPs, its headlights were not on when on the runway. It was also noted that the staff training programme for airport vehicle drivers did not cover the simultaneous presence of multiple vehicles on the manoeuvring area and that neither driver had completed all the requirements specified in the Airport Staff Training Manual. It was found too that there had been two runway incursions at Trail in 2017 following both of which a safety investigation and risk assessment had been completed by the Airport/SMS Manager. However, a subsequent “Management Review” of 2017 was found to have “deemed both events unrelated to airport operations” so that “airport operations were not reviewed or changed” as a result. It was also noted that “the safety goals and objectives for 2018, set out in the 2017 Management Review, did not