time the flight from Vancouver was scheduled to depart two hours later, snow clearance was still in progress and the runway conditions, reported as “poor” prior to the commencement of clearance, had not been updated so departure was delayed. Once an updated report had been received, the flight departed Vancouver just over an hour later with an en route time of approximately an hour. Passing 12,500 feet QNH in the descent, the flight was able to continue in VMC and when just over 20 nm from Trail, the IFR flight plan was cancelled and the flight continued under VFR. Three minutes later, the snowplough driver stopped at the runway holding position marking for Runway 16/34 (see the illustration below) and used the Mandatory Frequency (MF) to contact the flight and request its arrival time. The flight crew responded that they were about five minutes away and were advised by the snowplough driver that he intended to enter the runway in order to remove an area of slush near its intersection with the taxiway, which he then did before exiting onto the taxiway in around a minute and reporting clear to the inbound flight on the MF which was acknowledged. The route followed by the snow clearance vehicle convoy. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Whilst the snowplough was on the runway in the vicinity of the intersection, the pickup truck entered the runway via the taxiway “without confirming the aircraft location or stopping at the runway holding position marking” and proceeded north. Observing this, the snowplough driver reported having made a call on the MF to inform the pickup truck driver that the aircraft was approximately three minutes away but received no reply. The inbound aircraft flight crew stated that they had not heard this transmission. After the pickup truck driver reached the northern end of the runway, he stated that he had needed extra time at the threshold before beginning to drive south towards the runway 16 threshold “in order to inspect ridges on the runway surface and to provide an updated surface condition report” but had not broadcast his intentions. According to the flight crew, when on 4nm final on an offset approach to runway 16 for which the runway extended centreline is only joined at 1nm from the threshold, they had made a call on the MF saying that they would be landing in 1 minute which neither driver reported hearing. Only as they were just about to touch down did the flight crew note that the snowplough was on the apron. At this time, the pickup truck was just beginning to drive south along the east side of the 1219 metre-long runway and was still doing so just over half a minute later when the aircraft touched down at a recorded 113 KCAS. Having selected the propellers into reverse pitch to begin deceleration, the flight crew reported having “looked down the runway” and seen the pickup truck coming towards them on the 23 metre-wide runway and had