An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). The aircraft was required to be fitted with a 30 minute CVR and was so equipped but since the flight crew failed to trip the recorder CB, which was an OM requirement following any event reportable to the TSB, relevant data was subsequently overwritten. No FDR was installed nor was one required to be. There was also no recording of communications on the radio frequency in use nor was this required either. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 2,474 hours flying experience of which 1,398 hours were on type and that the First Officer had a total of 1,882 hours flying experience of which 332 hours were on type. The pickup truck which was on the runway when the aircraft touched down was being driven by an airport maintenance technician who had been employed “full time” (4 days per week) as such for just over a year prior to which he had no experience of airport operations. The part time snowplough driver had been employed at the airport for 12 years and had been one of two “airport operation specialists” for the four years leading up to the investigated event prior to which he also had no airport operations experience. Both men held valid Unrestricted Airport Vehicle Operator (U-AVOP) Permits issued by the Airport Manager and had both completed training as Aviation Radio Operators and held a corresponding certificate. The Airport Manager had been in post for 2½ years and was a part time employee who was also the designated “SMS Manager”. When appointed, it was noted that, he had “no airport experience or aviation knowledge” and that the safety regulator did not “approve or set out experience requirements for the airport manager position at Certified Airports” such as Trail. It was noted that Trail was an uncontrolled aerodrome where a Mandatory Frequency (MF) should be established “if the traffic volume and mix of aircraft traffic at that aerodrome is such that there would be a safety benefit derived from implementing MF procedures.” The MF area at Trail was noted to be airspace within a 5 nm radius up to “4400 feet amsl or 3000 feet agl”. Only aircraft equipped with a functioning radio capable of maintaining two-way communication are permitted in an MF area and there are regulatory MF communication requirements for VFR aircraft approaching an uncontrolled aerodrome. The Investigation found that the flight crew completed the required communications during the approach and landing. It was established that on the morning of the flight involved an airport vehicle operator had arrived at Trail Airport and found that the runway surface “was covered in thin slushy snow that had frozen overnight” and a second airport vehicle operator, who had been called in for the purpose, had arrived to assist with snow removal which began shortly afterwards with the work of a single snowplough being overseen by the driver of a pickup truck. By the