Noise can have either an extra-auditory or auditory effect on a pilot. Both of these effects may significantly affect performance and health. Extra-auditory effects occur when biological and complex cognitive processes are affected by noise. Noise can act as a nonspecific physiologic stressor and can alter endocrine, cardiovascular and neurologic functions. These altered functions can cause biochemical changes that may have negative health effects. Most notably, noise can cause an increase in heart rate, vaso-constriction, digestive activity and muscular tension. Also, a 75 dB noise may change the diameter of the eye’s pupil, which can significantly impact visual acuity. The effects of noise on performance are complex. However, from an operational point of view, one of the most important issues is how noise affects attention. A number of studies have explored this issue. Two classic studies of the effects of noise on performance are described below. In one study conducted by Hockey (1978), subjects were asked to perform a “clock test” where they were required to detect critical signals (i.e., the double jump of the needle on a clock). The critical signals were infrequent and occurred randomly. In this study two factors were combined: One-clock condition with 113 dB versus 79 dB. Three-clock condition with 113 dB versus 79 dB.. Results showed that noise had no significant effect on performance in the one-clock condition, but in the the three-clock condition, the higher level of noise significantly decreased performance (Figure 5). This finding demonstrated that noise tends to decrease the ability to share attention between several concurrent tasks, especially when the tasks must be performed for extended periods of time. Hockey further explored this topic in an experiment where subjects were asked to perform a tracking task and a detection task at the same time (Figure 6). For the tracking task, the higher the percentage of time spent on the target, the better the performance. In the detection task, performance was measured as correct detection of a signal. Results showed that higher levels of noise actually helped to maintain performance on the tracking task over time. For the detection task, noise improved detection of the signals located in the center of the field of vision, but decreased detection performance when the signal was in the periphery. Speech intelligibility is affected by the signal-to-noise (s/n) ratio. Ideally the s/n is higher than 0 dB, which means the signal is louder than the noise. Figure 7 shows the effects of s/n ratio on word articulation (the number of test words correctly identified in an intelligibility test). This figure shows that as the s/n ratio increases so does the correct identification of words. In other words, as a person’s voice becomes louder than the background noise, the voice is more easily understood. Figure 7. Word articulation as a function of signal-to-noise ratio. Auditory fatigue is a Temporary Threshold Shift (TTS) that occurs after exposure to noise.