Newly manufactured aircraft are delivered to customers having been built according to the applicable Type Certificate. This certificate is issued in respect of the defined build standard of the first aircraft of the specific type. Thereafter all subsequent new aircraft of this type must meet the same build standard for the issue of an individual aircraft Certificate of Airworthiness. See also the article Certification of Aircraft, Design and Production. The Type Certificate is valid throughout the life of a specific type and only varies in the event of a major change e.g. installation of a freight door. It can also allow what are sometimes referred to as “grandfather rights” to be applied for subsequent newer versions of the original aircraft model. For example, Airbus first produced the A320 aircraft and then subsequently added the A321, A319 and A318 to the same Type Certificate as they were deemed sufficiently similar. A similar process was applied to some versions of the Boeing 737, whilst noting that an Authority may invoke new standards for new derivatives e.g. Boeing 737NG. When an aircraft type enters service for the first time with a new operator, that operator must have a Maintenance Programme in existence and approved by his NAA before operation. This will be based upon the manufacturer’s Maintenance Planning Document (MPD) but will be tailored to suit the particular operator – this will be approved by the local authority as an Approved Maintenance Programme (AMP) and Approved Maintenance Schedule (AMS). The organisation which will carry out the work - either the airline’s own maintenance company or a contracted one – is normally termed a Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO). In addition to being an approved Part 145 company, it will also need to add the new aircraft type to its Approval. A Part 145 organisation has to meet specific requirements particularly in its staffing, tooling, premises and capacity. In particular, certain management posts and the Maintenance Organisation Exposition (MOE) are carefully scrutinised by the NAA prior to acceptance.