Strict adherence to SOPs - If in doubt whether a take-off clearance has been received, the flight crew should clarify the situation with the tower controller.. Radiotelephony discipline - While standard phraseology and proper communication techniques should be followed at all times, the following aspects must be stressed in relation to the risk of takeoff without ATC clearance: The phrase take off should only be used by ATC when issuing or cancelling a take-off clearance. In all other instances departure or airborne should be used. A blocked frequency often means that two aircraft (usually with similar call signs) have accepted the same clearance. The controller should promptly intervene in such circumstances to clarify the situation. Pilots, if in doubt whether a clearance was meant for them, should clarify rather than assume. Incorrect readback detection. An incorrect readback may mean that the pilot has confirmed what he or she thought they heard or expected to hear (e.g., line up, cleared for take-off) and not the actual clearance (e.g., line up and wait). Unambiguous hold short, line up and take off clearances - If the controller has any doubt that the crew might interpret the clearance incorrectly, they should emphasise (restate) the relevant part of the clearance. If the flight crew has any doubt about whether or not the clearance received contains a take-off part they should seek clarification instead of assuming "the most probable" scenario.. The phrase take off should only be used by ATC when issuing or cancelling a take-off clearance. In all other instances departure or airborne should be used.. A blocked frequency often means that two aircraft (usually with similar call signs) have accepted the same clearance. The controller should promptly intervene in such circumstances to clarify the situation. Pilots, if in doubt whether a clearance was meant for them, should clarify rather than assume.. Incorrect readback detection. An incorrect readback may mean that the pilot has confirmed what he or she thought they heard or expected to hear (e.g., line up, cleared for take-off) and not the actual clearance (e.g., line up and wait).. Unambiguous hold short, line up and take off clearances - If the controller has any doubt that the crew might interpret the clearance incorrectly, they should emphasise (restate) the relevant part of the clearance. If the flight crew has any doubt about whether or not the clearance received contains a take-off part they should seek clarification instead of assuming "the most probable" scenario.. Proper handling of conditional clearances - Normally, conditional clearances should be used by ATC for line up clearance, and not for take-off clearance. Controllers should explicitly state that a further (take-off) clearance is to be issued at a later time.. Controller vigilance - If the controller observes that an aircraft has just started its take-off roll and there is any safety concern, the controller should instruct the flight crew to stop immediately. If the error is detected early enough, the rejected take off will have no negative impact on flight