and others from leadership training. All will benefit from learning effective teamwork, problem-solving and decision-making. Typical airline flight crew CRM training, both the content and the manner in which it is delivered and facilitated, is a useful model to apply when training employees to work with cultural diversity; and it can cover all the subjects mentioned above. A great benefit of this type of training is that it can be integrated into all types of professional and workplace training – induction, qualification, refresher, recurrent etc. An open and effective reporting system should provide useful feedback to amend the training programme and methods, and the application of lessons learnt will be visible in how employees communicate with each other. Communication being the skill through which people with different cultural values and beliefs try to understand each other and ensure that, despite any personal differences, safety goals take priority. Wherever diversity in any form exists, a method of working effectively together is to find common ground. In the case of an aviation organisation this can be the required company behaviour policy, relevant regulatory requirements (reflected in rules and procedures), and production goals (turnaround, flight, airspace management, aircraft servicing). Whilst there can be differences in interpretation of the above, and differences in opinion of how to achieve these, there can be agreement that the overriding factor in all these cases is that the outcome must be safe. A core organisation/personal value that impacts direct on social culture is fostering a strong obligation to support and protect the welfare of each employee, passenger and the wider society at-large[1]. The organisation has a responsibility to cultivate a safety culture in which the safety of employees, passengers and the wider public is paramount, regardless of what the production goals may be. This may be counter-intuitive to some people, especially when under stress. For some, they may feel that to not fulfil a production goal (i.e. divert rather than land at the scheduled arrival aerodrome) is a personal failure and will mean others’ opinions of them will be poor. A desire to please others can be a barrier to effective communication and therefore a safety hazard. Most rule-bending occurs when individuals feel they have to “get the job done” at all costs. This attitude may be part of an unwritten sub-culture within an organisation, and is undesirable. Whereas a “business” has to balance production goals with the costs of reducing risks, employees, when working, need to be in no doubt that this balancing act does not apply to them and their decision-making. Their shared goal and priority should always be safety regardless of costs. This belief underwrites the safety performance of an organisation and can cross socio-cultural boundaries and differences – manifest as a shared common goal.