Collaboration between States and aviation industry stakeholders, including airlines and other aircraft operators, civil aviation authorities, air navigation service providers (ANSPs), repair stations, ground service providers and aerodromes, is an important element of continuously improving global aviation safety performance. Collaboration includes safety data collection and processing systems (SDCPSs) and safety data and information sharing programmes in which stakeholders work together under carefully defined data de-identification protocols to identify risks, develop and implement mitigation programmes, and monitor mitigation effectiveness. International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Annex 19, Safety Management, requires states to implement state safety programmes (SSPs) and operators and other service providers to implement safety management systems (SMSs). As part of that process, ICAO advocates for the sharing of safety information among numerous stakeholders. In the Global Aviation Safety Plan (GASP) 2017–2019, ICAO says: “The transition to an SSP requires increased collaboration across operational domains to identify hazards and manage risks. The analysis of various forms of safety data is needed to develop effective mitigation strategies specific to each state or region. This requires ICAO, States and international organizations to work closely together on safety risk management. In addition, collaborative efforts between key stakeholders, including service providers and regulatory authorities, are essential to the achievement of safety performance targets established through a State’s SSP or a service provider’s SMS. Through partnerships with such key stakeholders at national and regional levels, safety data should be analysed to support maintenance of performance indicators related to the risks and the major components of the aviation system. Key stakeholders should reach agreements to identify appropriate indicators, determine common classification schemes and establish analysis methodologies that facilitate the sharing and exchange of safety information” (emphasis added). In outlining the role of industry in improving safety, the GASP says: “Industry should progress in SMS implementation and work in a complementary manner with ICAO, the regions and individual states on safety information exchange, safety monitoring and auditing programmes” (emphasis added). A critical element of safety information sharing programmes is the protection of safety information sources. The following are examples of existing government-industry partnerships.