was arranged and GND subsequently advised that no obvious deflation was visually evident but the driver was going to get company engineering to attend. When they did, the deflated nosewheel tyre was confirmed and after the engines had been shut down, the aircraft was towed to its parking stand for passenger disembarkation where it arrived about 40 minutes after landing. By this time, ATC had advised the crew that damaged left side runway edge lighting had been found. The left wheel marking showing off runway tracking during the runway 17 landing (looking along runway 35). [Reproduced from the Official Report] The following day it could be seen that the aircraft had actually veered off the runway before being steered back onto it as speed reduced. Accidental activation of the TOGA mode during the final approach was found to have occurred and which resulted in an immediate AP disconnect and loss of selected flight modes and FD guidance. After touchdown (at about 1.7g) with all wheels on the ground at approximately the same time (within 0.2 seconds), inappropriate flight control inputs then caused the aircraft to veer left and caused an unexpected side load. These consisted of “application of right rudder and a simultaneous increase in left brake pedal pressure". This higher left side brake force caused the aircraft to go left and led to a subsequent aircraft side skid. This skidding caused excessive sidewall loading to the left nose gear wheel tyre which led to detachment of the tyre inner liner from the wheel rim and complete loss of pressure. When brake force on left brake pedal was reduced, directional control of aircraft was regained. Brake pedal application showed a difference between left and right pedal of up to about 50% with the maximum left brake pedal application recorded at about 95% whilst the right pedal application stayed at about 40%. The failure of the aircraft operator to report the occurrence was itself investigated. An examination of the OM and other procedural documentation found no reference to the requirement to promptly report Accidents and Serious Incidents to the TAIIB and also no clear responsibility to ensure that aircraft flight recorder data is secured after a notifiable event. The overarching EU regulations in both matters appeared to be being either ignored or overlooked by Air Baltic. The Root Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as “uncoordinated asymmetric flight control inputs by the crew during landing”. The Direct Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as “force applied to the wheels of the left main landing gear which caused the aircraft to deviate to the left with a subsequent aircraft side skid”. Possible Contributing Factors were identified as: Adverse weather conditions (Thunderstorm). Accumulated and increasing level of pilot stress during repeated approaches before the final one.. Two Safety Recommendations were made based on the findings of the Investigation as follows: that Air Baltic develop and implement in their Operational documentation procedures for immediate notification of the State Safety Investigation Authority about