The start of a Serious Incident Investigation was delayed for in excess of a month. The aircraft operator did not notify the occurrence to the designated State Safety Investigation Agency, the Latvian Transport Accident & Incident Investigation Bureau (TAIIB) without delay as required. The Board only became aware of it when they received a copy of the report of the aircraft operator’s internal investigation dated 22 July 2018. A report of the event occurring was submitted to the Latvian CAA the day after it occurred but they did not notify the TAIIB. However, a copy of relevant FDR data was made available and relevant airport/air traffic operational information was also still accessible. The 38 year-old female Captain, who was PF for the investigated flight had total of 6,977 hours flying experience of which 929 hours was on type. The extent to which experience had been in command was not recorded. The 29 year old female First Officer had total of 2,482 hours flying experience of which 918 hours was on type It was reported by the crew that an initial ILS approach to runway 18 at destination was broken off because the weather radar was showing a thunderstorm cell on the extended runway centreline at approximately 6 nm. Whilst the flight was being radar vectored to FL70, the aircraft behind continued to a landing and advised that “it’s only rain”. The flight was positioned for a second approach and followed a Ryanair 737 which went around because of “unstable approach conditions”. At approximately 1300 feet the TWR gave a spot wind of 300° at 14 knots gusting to 30 knots. Because this gust maximum represented a 16 knot tailwind component, a second go around was flown. Having confirmed fuel remaining would allow a third approach to be attempted and been advised by the TWR controller that the aircraft ahead had continued to a normal landing, the flight was positioned back onto final and this time was given a spot wind of 290° at 12 knots gusting to 17 knots and cleared to land. Two minutes later, another wind check was given of 280° 14 knot gusting to 27 knots. During the subsequent landing flare, the Captain stated that the wind was “strong and gusty” and that “at touchdown they felt like they could not keep the aircraft on the centreline” and it “was veering left and clipped one of the runway edge lights”. After this, an indication of tyre low pressure was annunciated and when checked on the EICAS the left nosewheel tyre was showing as the one affected. The aircraft exited the runway onto taxiway ‘B’ as instructed and then stopped and the crew made a non specific request to ATC to “check the runway”. When asked why an inspection was required, the response was “we nearly ran off the left side of the runway”. The flight was then transferred to GND and a ‘follow me’ vehicle was requested to come and check for a possible burst tyre. This