Tornados are characteristically relatively short lived - although the larger a feature they are, the longer they will normally last. They may be seen extending down from the cloud base as a funnel cloud which reaches the surface, where a debris cloud may be evident. The extent to which the funnel cloud is visible will depend on the moisture content of the air. The funnel form may be visible due to condensation and often takes on the colour of the earth and debris that is being sucked up by the funnel. Surface wind speeds in the largest tornadoes, which are a particular feature of the summer weather in the USA east of the Rocky Mountains, have been estimated to reach 200 knots. There are numerous types of tornado but the most destructive occur when an extensive, persistent and severe Thunderstorm exists. Strong downdrafts at the trailing edge of the storm can force a rotating mesocyclone towards the ground. Clear of the cloud of origin, the characteristic funnel cloud then appears. Eventually, the cold downdrafts cut off the supply of warm air which feeds both the tornado and the updraft within the storm cloud and the tornado dissipates. Climatology. Tornadoes occur exclusively over land and the most severe ones tend to occur in spring when atmospheric instability is at its greatest, but they can occur at any time of the year. The most likely time of day is late afternoon. The most severe and well documented Tornadoes occur in the mid western states of the USA and southern Canada, an area often referred to as "Tornado Alley". They also occur in north eastern Mexico, northern Argentina, southern Brazil, the United Kingdom, Bangladesh and parts of southern Russia.. Visible Indications. If the base of the cloud has well defined and extensive Mammatus cloud structures and the strength of the updrafts within the cloud are strong enough to push the top of the cloud through the Tropopause, indicated by a central bulge in the anvil shaped top to the cloud, then the storm is severe enough to generate tornadoes..