A Serous Incident Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA using FDR data from both aircraft together with recorded ATC voice and radar data and statements given by those involved. It was noted that the 717 flight crew consisted of a Captain with Spanish nationality and a First Officer with French Nationality. The First Officer was acting as PF and ATC communications with the flight were conducted in English. The CRJ700 flight crew consisted of two pilots of French nationality with the First Officer acting as PF and ATC communications conducted in French. It was also noted that the TWR controller at Strasbourg is provided with a radar display of all traffic above approximately 1500 feet and that the controller in position was an instructor who also held an APP radar rating and had 18 years’ experience including six at Strasbourg. The Boeing 717 was making an ILS approach to runway 05 at Strasbourg. The CRJ700 was taxiing for departure from the same runway and was transferred from GND to TWR as it taxied towards holding point ‘H’ after reporting it was ready for takeoff. The TWR Controller asked if the departing CRJ700 could commence takeoff without delay if so cleared and on receiving confirmation issued clearance for an immediate takeoff accompanied by the advice that there was landing traffic at 3 miles without giving Boeing 717 as the aircraft type. The CRJ700 still had 30 metres to run until reaching the holding point. About 40 seconds later, the Boeing 717 reported at 2 miles as the CRJ700 lined up on the runway and the TWR Controller informed the Boeing 717 of the departure of the CRJ700 and instructed it to continue the approach. The 717 Captain responded with “unbelievable” on the frequency and five seconds later, the CRJ700 began its takeoff roll. With just under a mile to go, the 717 crew advised that they may discontinue their approach and were again told to continue. Nine seconds later, and when just over half a mile from the runway threshold having just passed the applicable ILS DA, the 717 crew initiated a missed approach and informed ATC accordingly. At this point, the CRJ700 was still not airborne and had reached a point 780 metres from the beginning of the runway as it accelerated through approximately 115 knots. The TWR controller instructed the 717 to initially climb straight ahead in accordance with the MAP (towards the NDB ‘SE’ located 4 nm from the runway 23 threshold on its extended centreline) and received a correct readback. With the surface wind being reported as from a mean of 030° at 10 knots, the First Officer then selected a heading of 042°, rather than displaying the ‘SE’ and which was also contrary to the 047° ILS approach track in what was only likely to be a light crosswind from the left. As the CRJ700 crossed the threshold of runway 23 at an altitude of 900 feet and