between the takeoff clearance eventually given to the CRJ700 and the 717 crossing the runway 05 threshold. In respect of ATC communications with the two aircraft involved being conducted in two different languages, the Investigation considered that although the use of English in both cases might have improved the situational awareness of the 717 crew and “allowed them to adapt their path accordingly” before TCAS intervened, it was “not possible” to determine if this was in fact the case. The narrative Conclusions in respect of the scenario which led to the unsafe proximity between the two aircraft included the following points: The TWR Controller’s confidence, despite contrary indications, that it was appropriate to offer an immediate takeoff clearance to the crew of the CRJ700 despite the position of the inbound 717 on final approach.. The decision of the 717 crew to discontinue their approach when they realised that the departing CRJ700 would not have crossed the far end of the runway by the time they touched down.. The reliance of the TWR Controller on the capability of the CRJ700 crew to immediately follow his instructions when in dynamic flight phases with a high workload and a difference in acceleration between the two aircraft, it was difficult for the crews to perceive, analyse and follow those instructions, especially as they were given in different languages.. The fact that the TWR Controller had difficulty in following the progress of each flight from his position and the late appearance of relevant information on his radar display did not allow him to adapt his initial strategy.. The fact that the 717 deviated to the left during its go around after its crew had selected a heading which was different to the runway magnetic heading and which accentuated the horizontal closure of the two aircraft after the CRJ700 also turned to the left.. The conflict was only resolved after compliance with the resulting TCAS RAs by the crews of both aircraft.. Six Potential Contributory Factors were identified as follows: In respect of the CRJ700 being issued with an immediate take-off clearance although the Boeing 717 was at 3nm on final approach: The TWR Controller’s wish to optimise the use of the runway, without any particular reason and without anticipating the risks in the event of something unexpected happening, meant that the prescribed separations between the arriving and departing aircraft were not complied with. The absence at the time of the incident of means, practices or systematic procedures at Strasbourg airport, such as the setting up of an approach fix for runway 05. The (inbound) aircraft type not being mentioned by the TWR Controller when giving traffic information to the crew of the CRJ700 with a view to an immediate take-off which meant that the crew did not have all the information to allow them to judge whether they could guarantee the immediate take-off conditions (given that) they did not share the same situational awareness as the controller and the crew of the Boeing 717.. The