dangerous” and noted that “they had been afraid”. The CRJ700 crew stated that although there had been “a lot of exchanges in English between the TWR controller and the 717”, they were not aware that it was on final approach and had thought that the finals traffic mentioned by the controller when he asked if they were able to take an immediate departure was a VFR light aircraft on local or circuit flight. They stated that as the Controller instructed them to “maintain 2,000 feet”, they had been climbing through 2,450 feet and as they made a slight nose-down input, the TCAS RA occurred and was followed. As this quickly changed to ‘INCREASE CLIMB’, they stated that the climb required was almost at the limit of the VSI scale and said that they had been “very surprised to have to take such a pitch attitude for the climb (and) had been afraid and had expected to strike an aircraft”. At this point, they stated that they “were not aware that the Boeing 717 had executed a missed approach” and also stated that at no time had they had visual contact with it. They also noted that “shortly after the incident and not realising how it might affect the cabin crew” they had explained to the cabin crew who had entered the flight deck what had just happened. The TWR Controller stated that when the CRJ700 eventually became airborne, he “considered that the 717 could land”. However, he had delayed issuing a landing clearance “to check the spacing (and) confirmed that he would have been required to clear the 717 to land before the CRJ700 had crossed the end of the runway”. He stated that he had been “surprised” by the decision of the 717 crew to execute a missed approach and added that “in his opinion it was more dangerous to execute a missed approach behind the departing aeroplane than to land a bit too close behind it”. He also said that “he was convinced at this point that the crew of the CRJ700 were perfectly aware of the situation as they had been cleared for an immediate departure and had had the position information about the traffic in final approach”. He explained that he had waited until the aircraft had both appeared on his radar display which had occurred at around 1,600 feet to assess the separation but the TCAS RAs then occurred before he had time to de-conflict the flight paths of the two aircraft. It was noted that in the absence of the designation of a 4nm approach fix for the 05 straight-in approach comparable to the one defined for runway 23, beyond which point a departing aircraft could not be lined up once an aircraft on approach was inside it, the applicable ATC requirement for runway 05 was no line up to be given once the aircraft on approach is within 3 minutes of “arrival”. It was noted that “approximately 1 minute 20 seconds” had elapsed