TWR Controller’s wish to optimise the use of the runway, without any particular reason and without anticipating the risks in the event of something unexpected happening, meant that the prescribed separations between the arriving and departing aircraft were not complied with.. The absence at the time of the incident of means, practices or systematic procedures at Strasbourg airport, such as the setting up of an approach fix for runway 05.. The (inbound) aircraft type not being mentioned by the TWR Controller when giving traffic information to the crew of the CRJ700 with a view to an immediate take-off which meant that the crew did not have all the information to allow them to judge whether they could guarantee the immediate take-off conditions (given that) they did not share the same situational awareness as the controller and the crew of the Boeing 717.. In respect of the activation of the TCAS RA between the CRJ700 which was taking off and the Boeing 717 which was (making) a go-around: The TWR Controller not anticipating and developing action plans in the event of a potential conflict following a low-level missed approach or a delay with the immediate take-off. The situational awareness between the TWR controller and the two crews not being shared. The initial paths for the departure and missed approach towards the NDB 'SE' at 2,500 feet not guaranteeing sufficient separation between the aircraft.. The TWR Controller not anticipating and developing action plans in the event of a potential conflict following a low-level missed approach or a delay with the immediate take-off.. The situational awareness between the TWR controller and the two crews not being shared.. The initial paths for the departure and missed approach towards the NDB 'SE' at 2,500 feet not guaranteeing sufficient separation between the aircraft.. Safety Action taken by the ANSP as a result of the investigated event whilst the Investigation was still in progress was noted to have been the designation of an “approach fix” for runway 05 at 4nm, the same range as the existing fix for approaches to runway 23. This new fix, like the existing one for runway 23 defined a point beyond which if any inbound aircraft has passed, a departing aircraft may not be instructed to line up. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the DNSA (the French ANSP), in the absence of means or procedures such as runway approach fixes, which means that management of aircraft line-up and landing sequences mainly relies on the experience, assessment and judgement of the position controller despite the criteria specified by the regulations and whereas this absence of means or procedures creates a difference between the initial training for the Aerodrome Control Instrument (ADI) rating which relies on the use of such means and continuation training or conversion training, take into account the specific aspects at each aerodrome where there is commercial traffic in order to define all measures which will improve separation management of arriving and