language, and the application of crew resource management (CRM) skills, when the flight crew was addressing operational problems. Specifically, the captain did not make use of dispatch and other resources available to him, and he did not demonstrate the leadership, decision making and management skills needed. Further, the first officer and flight engineer did not provide the kind of active team support the captain needed. Leading all communication, the first officer appeared to have assumed a slightly more influential role than the captain. The inability of the crew to effectively communicate as a cohesive team, with a strong leader, most likely created a weak CRM environment. ILS Approach If the captain had been able to complete the first ILS approach and land successfully, the accident would not have occurred. While wind shear was a factor, it was not the sole cause of the poorly flown approach. Other factors, both psychological and physiological, help explain not only the crew's performance of the approach but also the lack of anticipation of the wind shear and the absence of any discussion of the need to land on the first approach due to the fuel situation. The aircraft had been flown manually, using raw data, for the majority of the flight due to recurrent problems with the autopilot and flight director. The hours of manual flying combined with the increasingly critical nature of the crew's situation are consistent with increased fatigue and adverse stress reactions. This situation is most evident in the captain's decreasing ability to share multiple tasks. Indeed, from the time that the airplane was on ATC’s final vector to the localizer until the missed approach, there were nine distinct instances when the captain asked for instructions to be repeated or for confirmation of the airplane's configuration. Additionally, the captain asked the first officer to speak louder. These events are all signs of fatigue and adverse stress. These stress conditions are evident not only in the pilots’ performance of the ILS approach but in their failure to recognize that they could not conduct a missed approach. Moreover, when they did conduct the missed approach, they did not take control of the situation and request the shortest flight path back to the airport. 3 Prevention Strategies and Lines of Defense One of the main causes of the accident was the crew’s failure to communicate the urgency of the situation, due to the use of nonstandard phraseology by the first officer, poor knowledge of English by the Captain and poor intra-crew coordination and communication. If a pilot has limited English proficiency, he or she has to rely heavily on the meaning of the words he does know. If those words have a vague meaning, or if a clear set of terms and words is not used by pilots and controllers, confusion can occur — as it did in this accident. If one of the crewmembers has inadequate knowledge of English, he cannot accurately monitor the transmissions of other crewmembers. This emphasizes the importance of