A Serious Incident investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS). Relevant data were available from the FDR component of both the installed EAFRs and from recorded ATC data but relevant data on the CVR component of the EAFRs was overwritten before the seriousness of the event was recognised which was only after the Captain’s post flight ASR reporting the event was correlated with the OFDM process. The 54 year-old Captain had a total of 20,536 hours flying experience which included 15,074 hours in command on all types with 2,117 of those command hours gained on type. The 35 year-old First Officer who was acting as PF had a total of 8,818 hours flying experience which included 230 hours on type. The augmenting First Officer had a total of 7,965 hours flying experience which included 3,350 hours on type and was on the flight deck for the arrival. The three pilots had respectively recorded 749, 768 and 680 flying hours over the 12 months prior to the investigated event due to significant global reductions in passenger transport flights because of public health concerns arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. A little over seven hours after departing from Beijing, where the QNH setting was 1009 hPa, the flight commenced descent from FL 360 with the First Officer as PF. On initial contact with Abu Dhabi APP, the crew confirmed receipt of ATIS information ‘India’ by uplink and that they were following the EMERU 2D STAR. Passing FL 170 at a distance of approximately 20nm from EMERU, APP advised the flight to expect an (RNP AR) RNAV ‘Y’ approach to runway 31L. The Abu Dhabi QNH was not provided verbally by ATC but the ATIS received earlier included a QNH of 999 hPa. Whilst it became clear to the crew that they had both inadvertently overlooked the Flight Crew Operations Manual (FCOM) requirement to preset the arrival QNH on receipt, the circumstances which had led to this were unclear. The fact that Relief First Officer occupying the main flight deck supernumerary crew seat had been in an ideal ‘oversight’ position but had not noticed the evident omission was noted. The flight subsequently established on the RNAV ‘Y’ approach as cleared with the First Officer as PF. As the aircraft descended through 2,670 feet indicated altitude, the radio altimeter became live showing 2,500 feet and the auto callout of “2500” occurred. It was noted that “normally, the difference between the pressure altitude with a correct QNH setting and the radio altitude at Abu Dhabi is less than 100 feet”. Thereafter, the indicated (but incorrect) pressure altitude continued to be higher than the radio altitude with the difference between 150 and 380 feet but went unnoticed. Soon after this, the flight was transferred to TWR although the controller had to repeat the frequency to get a correct readback of it. As the aircraft descended through the (incorrect) indicated altitude of 1,790 feet (1,470 feet radio altitude), the flap lever was