endorsement by Boeing, issued updated information on MCP Altitude Setting Techniques when using VNAV for RNP AR Approaches was incorporated into version 2 of the (Boeing) Abu Dhabi RNAV (RNP) Approach Guide.. ANSP GAL Air Navigation Services (GAL ANS): The Safety Department produced a Safety Publication LL03/20 in the form of a “Lessons Learned (LL)” on the subject of “Incorrect QNH Setting”.. In order to reiterate the requirements for the provision of QNH by controllers, Operations Bulletin (OB) 007/20 was published on 24 June 2020 to raise staff awareness of the content of ICAO PANS-ATM section 6.6 in respect of the provision of QNH to arriving aircraft.. A Supplementary Instruction (SI) 027/20 was incorporated into the Unit ATS-OM.. Appropriate action was taken on receipt of a request from Etihad Airways Operations that ILS approaches would now their preferred option for arrivals at Abu Dhabi.. Supplementary Instructions (SI) 027/21 & 029/21 were issued in respect of actions required by APP & TWR controllers in respect of the communication of MSAW alerts generated in respect of any controlled flight. This guidance included a requirement for APP to notify TWR of any MSAW alert observed whilst the traffic involved is under TWR control.. A total of six Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Findings of the Investigation as follows: that Etihad Airways reinforce among pilots the requirement to pre-select the QNH barometric setting after receiving ATIS information for the destination airport. [SR48/2021]. that Etihad Airways ensure the effectiveness of the safety actions taken as a part of its SMS program. [SR49/2021]. that Etihad Airways address the amendment of the approach SOPs with more detailed information on specific referencing or crosschecking of the VSD on all baro-VNAV approach operations. [SR50/2021]. that Etihad Airways reinforce among pilots the requirement of additional monitoring role to be assumed by the additional flight crew in the flight deck as per the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM). [SR51/2021]. that GAL Air Navigation Services (GAL ANS) consider the practicability to include the contents of both Supplementary Instructions in the Air Traffic Services Operating Manual as SOPs for its air traffic controllers. [SR52/2021]. that the General Civil Aviation Authority of the United Arab Emirates (GCAA) consider the practicability of implementing the requirement of 25 hours CVR recording capability for new aircraft with maximum certificated take-off mass (MTOM) of more than 27,000 kg with its certificate of airworthiness issuance on or after 1 January 2022 and also consider having a retrofit program within a certain period for upgrading to a 25 hour CVR recording capability for aircraft registered in the United Arab Emirates with MTOM of more than 27,000 kg with the certificate of airworthiness issuance date before 1 January 2022. [SR53/2021]. The Final Report was issued on 28 September 2021.