moved from the 20 to the 25 detent which completed configuration for landing. TWR was contacted and the flight was instructed to continue the approach. Twenty three seconds later, landing clearance and a wind check were given and after a repeat, it was acknowledged as the aircraft passed 1,000 feet radio altitude with its altimeters showing 1,350 feet. Passing 500 feet radio altitude, the indicated altitude showed 860 feet. The AP was disengaged when the aircraft passed 660 feet indicated altitude (280 feet radio altitude). Only at this point did the Captain become aware that the PAPI was showing four reds and realising that “something was not right” had ordered an immediate go-around. The FDR recorded the TOGA mode becoming engaged when the aircraft was at approximately 1.3 nm from the runway 31L threshold with the (incorrect) indicated altitude showing 570 feet and the radio altitude indicating approximately 210 feet. The lowest recorded height once the go around had been initiated was 202 feet. It was noted that the First Officer had been aware of the all-red PAPI at the time the Captain had called for a go around but had not remarked on this abnormality or called for a go around himself. At this stage, there was no crew understanding of the reason for the premature descent. As the aircraft, now back with APP, was approaching the 4000 feet stop altitude applicable to the standard missed approach procedure, the controller informed the flight that the QNH was now 998 hPa and requested the crew to advise when read for radar vectors to an ILS approach to runway 31L. The Captain replied that they were ready for a second approach but did not read back the QNH. The aircraft was then levelled off at an aircraft-indicated 4,000 feet QNH and the APP controller, seeing that the aircraft was actually at 3,700 feet QNH, asked the flight to confirm their altimeter settings. This resulted in the crew realising that they had set the altimeter subscales to an incorrect figure of 1009 hPa instead of the 999 hPa which had been provided on the ATIS when changing to QNH from 1013 prior to the first approach. The correct QNH was set and a corrective climb to 4000 feet was made with ATC formally recording a Level Bust in respect of the missed approach altitude error. The subsequent ILS approach and landing was without further event. The error made and the procedural and systemic ways it could have been recognised and corrected were considered: It was observed that a procedural opportunity for flight crew to detect a materially incorrect QNH arises as the Radio Altimeter (RA) becomes ‘live’ at 2,500 feet agl since the PM is required to monitor the normal auto callout of ‘2500’ (or make the call themselves if the auto callout is inoperative) and the PF, (only) after confirming that the Pressure Altimeter reads approximately 2500 feet aal should respond “Checked”. Thereafter the crew are required to keep the RA