which the all red PAPI indication was recognised on the first one.. The availability of a Vertical Situation Display (VSD) at the base of the ND meant that the current flight path angle could be displayed as a function of the vertical speed and ground speed and that the runway and the scaled runway length together with a projection of where the aircraft flight path would intercept the runway would be available. However, despite this opportunity to enhance their vertical situational awareness, the crew made no mention of the VSD and its cues being monitored during the approach or considered for their vertical assessment. It was noted that although operator SOPs required that the VSD was selected on for all RNP AR approaches, no detailed guidance was provided on specific reference to or crosscheck with the VSD during such an approach. The Boeing Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) was noted to encourage VSD use “as much as possible during all approaches” but it was “not an obligatory reference for flight crew on approach”.. The Relief First Officer did not appear to have noticed anything unusual from their position on the central flight deck supernumerary seat during the descent and approach and was included in the crew to permit the extension of the FDP which would have been allowable with only two pilots on board. The OM-A was found to describe the duties of an augmenting/additional crew member when occupying the flight deck supernumerary seat as an observer as to: Provide additional monitoring of the flight during [...] critical phases of flight. Be alert for any threats and/or errors that have not been trapped by the operating crew. It also required that such monitoring should be “conducted silently” with any observed threats and/or errors being pointed out to the operating crew taking account of any high workload situation so that the operating crew can take the necessary steps to manage the threat effectively. It also cautioned that “the additional crew shall not diminish the synergy of the two-pilot basic crew operation (so that) interruption of the operating crew is only warranted when it is clear that a potentially undesirable aircraft state exists”.. Provide additional monitoring of the flight during [...] critical phases of flight.. Be alert for any threats and/or errors that have not been trapped by the operating crew.. It also required that such monitoring should be “conducted silently” with any observed threats and/or errors being pointed out to the operating crew taking account of any high workload situation so that the operating crew can take the necessary steps to manage the threat effectively. It also cautioned that “the additional crew shall not diminish the synergy of the two-pilot basic crew operation (so that) interruption of the operating crew is only warranted when it is clear that a potentially undesirable aircraft state exists”.. It was of concern that the Investigation was hindered by the absence of CVR data which would have enabled the assessment of flight crews’ procedural compliance, workload,