in their scan until landing.. It was discovered during the Investigation that, unknown to the crew, their QNH setting error had led to MSAW activations at the APP controller’s position. The MSAW system assumes that the correct QNH is set and alerts from it are based on that principle. Warnings generated occur visually on the APP radar display and are simultaneously annunciated aurally. Based on a simulation which was time synchronised with the corresponding FDR data, the first MSAW activation lasted 10 seconds and occurred when the aircraft was just inside 9 nm from the runway threshold and passing 3,100 feet on the (actual) QNH. The warning “corresponded to a prediction by the system, which calculated that the aircraft was descending with a high rate of descent close to the configured minimum safe altitude” and ceased when the aircraft entered the “MSAW Inhibition Area”. The second MSAW activation lasted 45 seconds as the aircraft was descending from 800 feet to 400 feet on the (actual) QNH and ceased when it was at approximately 1.5 nm from the threshold. This second MSAW activation was actually generated by the discrete Approach Path Monitor Warning (APMW) system which was activated because the aircraft had descended below the system glide path angle range limit. The warning continued until deactivation when the aircraft entered the APMW inhibition area at 1.5 nm from the threshold. The reconstructed vertical profile of the final stages of the approach in relation to the 2.8° angle procedure shows the position of the MSAW/APMW activations and the points where they were automatically inhibited.. The vertical profile of the RNAV Y procedure compared to the one flown. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Despite explicit procedures to the contrary, the APP controller did not advise the crew of the first MSAW activation and in the case of the second, (APMW) activation, by then the aircraft was on the TWR frequency and the controller had no direct display of any MSAW/APMW alerts and was not informed by the APP controller. It was found that there were no procedures covering this and even if there had been, there were none requiring a TWR controller to notify an APMW activation to the aircraft concerned should he be aware of it.. The late recognition of the all red PAPI prompted a review of the prevailing visibility. The crew reported that during the first approach, they had not been able to see the PAPI clearly when passing the final approach fix (FAF) at 4 nm from touchdown. The Captain stated that during the second approach, at a similar range but at the correct procedure height, it had not been possible to determine the colour(s) of the PAPI when requested by ATC to advise this. It was concluded that the forward visibility on both approaches in the prevailing hazy conditions would probably have been less than the “greater than 10km” (5.4 nm) airport surface visibility being reported by METAR although not as low as the 1.5 nm range at