distraction, decision-making, situational awareness and fatigue as potential factors. It was recognised in many events categorised as Serious Incidents, a 2 hour CVR requirement for data retention was often, for various reason, insufficient to ensure availability of CVR data for Investigation purposes. It was noted that the General Civil Aviation Authority as UAE State Safety Regulator was in the process of drafting regulations which would require a recording capability of 25 hours for aircraft with a MTOM of more than 27,000 kg with its Certificate of Airworthiness issued on or after 1 January 2022. The Cause of the accident was formally documented as “the incorrect local pressure (QNH) altimeter setting (which led to) a go-around when the aircraft was at a distance of 1.3 nautical miles from the threshold of runway 31L after the flight crew had definitely seen four red precision approach path indicator (PAPI) lights”. Six Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The operating flight crew omitted to preset (the correct) QNH value after receiving ATIS information, even though the Commander had confirmed to ATC that the flight had received ATIS Information India which contained the Abu Dhabi QNH of 999 hPa.. Prior to and at transition level, the flight crew were fixated on the high-energy management for the descent, such that selecting the barometric setting from the standard pressure of 1013 hPa to the local QNH value was carried out incorrectly.. ATC did not provide the Abu Dhabi QNH along with the initial descent clearance from a flight level to an altitude, nor was it given when issuing the clearance for the runway 31L RNAV Y approach from the IAF.. The VSD and its cues were not used or considered for their vertical profile assessment during approach by the flight crew for monitoring.. ATC did not provide instructions to check the QNH setting and the level of the aircraft when the activation of the minimum safe altitude warning was triggered on its radar screen.. At higher altitudes, the forward visibility was less than reported due to the presence of haze layer(s) which are commonly associated with temperature inversions in the Middle Eastern region.. Safety Action taken as a result of internal safety investigations after the event and known to the Investigation whilst it was in progress was noted to have included but not been limited to the following: Aircraft Operator Etihad Airways: Introduced a requirement to confirm the QNH prior to the IAF has been incorporated in fleet-wide SOPs for all RNP AR approaches.. Issued separate (Boeing and Airbus) ‘Abu Dhabi RNAV (RNP) Approach Guides to highlight to crews important aspects of such approaches for presentation as mandatory courses for all pilots along with the completion of a compulsory ‘Abu Dhabi RNAV (RNP) Approach Questionnaire’.. Issued a Crew Training publication ‘Incorrect QNH Setting when conducting baro-VNAV approaches’ in order to draw attention to the CFIT risk when flying instrument approach operations with the pressure altimeter sub-scale set to an incorrect pressure setting (QNH).. After review and