Once a situation is recognised as unfamiliar, performance shifts from a skill-based to a rule-based level. First of all, the human tries to solve the problem by relying on a set of memorised rules and can commit rule-based mistakes. These kinds of error depend on the application of a good rule (a rule that has been successfully used in the past) to a wrong situation, or on the application of a wrong rule. In the case of planning failures (mistakes), the person did what he/she intended to do, but it did not work. The goal or plan was wrong. This type of error is referred to as a mistake. When we recognise that the current situation does not fit with any rule stored, we shift to knowledge-based behaviour. At the knowledge-based behaviour level we can commit planning errors (Knowledge based mistakes). They basically concern the difficulty we have in gathering information on all the aspects of a situation, in analysing all the data and in deriving the right decision. Planning is based on limited information, it is carried out with limited time resources (and cognitive resources) and it can result in a failure. Imagine the following situation. It’s 8:15 AM and you are driving to your office. The traffic is not moving at the usual pace and at some points it is not moving at all. You do not know what is happening: it might be an accident or something else but it will cause you to be late. In response, you devise an alternative plan: you decide to continue to work via a different route. You know the city, so it is easy for you. Unfortunately, road works make your brilliant plan a failure. The street you intended to use is blocked and you have to return to your usual route. It is possible that the road works on the alternate route were the cause of the traffic jam you encountered. Your plan was wrong. You did not have a good model of the city traffic. The important point to understand is that error and performance are both merely the outcomes of behaviours and actions - these behaviours and actions are intrinsically the same, whether they result in a positive or a negative outcome. In fact, if the system performance criteria were not known, it would be difficult to observe human behaviour and say whether it was good or ‘in error’. A true model of error must therefore be able to account for performance and vice versa (HERA).