The event was Investigated by the Irish Air Accident Investigation Unit. It was established that the ATR 72 aircraft involved had been substituting for the ATR43 normally used for the flight and had been positioned empty to Shannon in the early hours of the day of the occurrence by a different flight crew. After arrival, the aircraft had been cleared to taxi to the area adjacent to the East Apron hangar (see the diagram below) where the ATR42 was normally parked and shut down before being towed to the final parking position adjacent to the hangar. When the aircraft was ready to depart later that day, the engines were started and, having requested and received taxi clearance from ATC and with a marshaller ahead of the aircraft and a wingman on the left wing, the aircraft began taxiing with the aircraft commander in control, making "a gentle right turn" to pick up the lead-out centreline. Shortly after the aircraft began to move, there was a jolt which the commander reported he had initially thought had been caused by hitting a wheel chock. The parking brake was set, the left engine shut down and the right engine propeller brake set. Once it became apparent that the wing had struck the hangar, the right engine was also shut down and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) CB tripped in accordance with SOP. After twenty minutes had elapsed since the crew had acknowledged their taxi clearance and nothing more had been heard from the aircraft, ATC called the Airport Operations Office to check on the status of the aircraft. Six minutes later, the Airport Duty Officer reported back to ATC and only then were the Airport Fire Service (AFS) notified. When the AFS reached the scene shortly afterwards, they found that the damaged aircraft had already been moved into the hangar. Damage to both the aircraft and the hangar was subsequently assessed as being relatively minor. The aircraft commander's report to the Operator's Safety Office was noted to have included the remark in respect of the time of the collision, "marshaller giving slow right turn hand instructions with no indication to stop or to hasten rate of turn up to striking building". The marshaller's report to their Handling Company employer was noted to have included the statement that "I tried to turn him onto a safe line out but he kept coming straight. [The Wingman] signalled to stop so I stopped him, but he did not stop immediately and he came into contact with the hangar.’’ It was considered that "the confined manoeuvring space made both taxiing the aircraft and the provision of adequate guidance by the Wingman and Marshaller difficult" and that "the prevailing weather and ambient lighting conditions at the time may have contributed to the difficulties experienced by the Flight Crew and Ground personnel". It was established that a little over 3 years earlier, the Operator has sought to use the stand at the East Apron hangar for their aircraft and