had received approval from the Airport Authority to do so for an ATR 42 aircraft subject to the implementation of specified operational safety procedures. These arrangements allowed for the aircraft to be towed/pushed into its parking position and to subsequently manoeuvre off-stand under its own power. The Airport Authority also notified both the Aircraft Operator and the Handling Company used by the Operator that because the ATR 72 was longer and had a bigger wingspan (by 2.48 metres) than the ATR 42, the parking arrangements approved for the ATR 42 adjacent to the East Apron hangar must not also be used by an ATR 72, which would instead be required to park on a main apron stand or be towed into the hangar. It was noted, however, that the Airport Authority did permit the long term parking/storage of one particular ATR 72 aircraft, M-ABEV, adjacent to the hangar. It was noted that the corresponding approval stated that the aircraft "must not be moved under its own power while manoeuvring on the support stand and that all manoeuvring be performed by towing or tractor pushing only". The Aircraft Operator’s Route Briefing Document was examined and it was found that having referred to the ATR42 being the normal aircraft used, it did not state that the normally used parking position in front of the hangar was only for the use of the ATR 42 and expressly not approved for the ATR 72. It was noted that the apron where the collision had occurred had been specifically marked to assist the correct positioning and manoeuvring of an ATR42 (see the picture below). A continuous red line marked the protected (safe boundary) area of the aircraft while parked and yellow box makings indicated the location of the main landing gear when parked. There was also a yellow lead-out line marked from the parked position of the nose landing gear which, if followed, would provide approximately 6 metres clearance between the tip of the left wing and the hangar. It was noted that because this lead-out line was set at an angle from the parked aircraft position, it was necessary for an immediate right turn to be made to follow the line and be assured of clearance. The Investigation noted that the greater wingspan of the ATR 72 meant that when parked, its left wing would have been partly over the hatched area and a photograph of the ATR 72 as it had been parked which was provided to the Investigation was found to show the aircraft left main landing gear "well forward and left of the ramp markings to the extent that the nose landing gear extended well beyond the protected area defined by the red line". The Investigation formally determined the Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was "Collision with a building structure due to insufficient wing-tip clearance for safe manoeuvring in an area that was unsuitable for that aircraft type". Three Contributory Factors were also identified: The unsuitability of the parking area