port which by then was exhibiting “advanced thread wear and fatigue damage, consistent with side-to-side fitting cyclic movement” and as a result had insufficient remaining threads to prevent the fitting from pulling out. The Operator’s maintenance records showed that both the aircraft’s engines (and their OBVs) were those which had been fitted to the aircraft at build and had not subsequently been removed during an accumulated 22,419 flight hours and 13,157 flight cycles. It was noted that there had been five previous CF34-8 engine OBV fuel line ‘pull-out’ failures, three of which had occurred in over a five month period in 2011, two of which had resulted in a fire, one in flight and the other on the ground. This resulted in a 2014 FAA AD which mandated an improved OBV design but there were then two further events including one to an Embraer E170 in 2014 and another to an in-flight CRJ700 in 2017. It was noted that following the investigated new event, the engine manufacturer had issued two SBs which required a one-time inspection of the OBV supply, return, and drain fuel fittings and their associated supporting link rods with replacement of OBVs or related hardware as necessary. A related FAA Emergency AD (EAD) followed and mandated initial and repetitive inspections all CF34-8C and CFM34-8E engines’ OBV fuel tubes, their associated link rod assemblies and the OBV fuel fittings with replacement of all components failing inspection requirements. This EAD was then followed by an FAA NPRM incorporating the same inspection requirements but also including terminating action in the form of a new improved OBV design based on the findings of this Investigation. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was "the fuel supply tube fitting pulling out of the left engine’s Operability Bleed Valve (OBV) during the landing rollout, allowing fuel to leak and contact the hot engine case, which ignited a fire that caused thermal damage to the engine pylon”. A Contributory Factor to the accident was identified as “an undetected progressive Environmental Control System (ECS) support link wear condition that allowed excessive OBV movement relative to the engine and the lack of alignment instructions in the base engine assembly drawing and the lack of maintenance tasks to assess the operational condition of the ECS links”. The Final Report was published on 27 May 2022. Some information used in this summary is taken from the ancillary factual report of the Investigation’s Powerplant Group. No Safety Recommendations were made.