An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB based on a detailed examination of the engine in situ and further examination of removed relevant engine components supported by FDR and FADEC NVM data. The aircraft was just exiting runway 34R after landing and the thrust reversers were being stowed when the ‘L ENG SRG OPEN’ Caution was displayed. With engine thrust at idle, the taxi in was continued but 75 seconds later, a ‘L ENG FIRE’ Warning was annunciated. Both left engine fire extinguishing shots were discharged but the fire continued and could be seen from the passenger cabin. At this time, the sole cabin crew stated that they had been aware of smoke-like fumes in the cabin but there had been no visible smoke there. The aircraft was stopped and the left engine was shut down. Fire could be seen inside the left engine inlet and around the pylon and those outside it could see a pool of fuel on the ground beneath the rear of the aircraft. The 56 passengers and three crew members evacuated onto the taxiway using the main cabin door and there were no injuries. The left engine fire and the burning fuel pool on the ground prior to the arrival of the RFFS. [Reproduced from the Investigation’s Powerplant Group Factual Report] It was noted that the ‘L ENG SRG OPEN’ Caution indicated that the left engine Operability Bleed Valve (OBV) had failed whilst open. This valve is fuel actuated and electrically controlled with the required fuel routed from the engine HP pump through a supply port and returned to the pump via a return port. Residual fuel is drained through a third port. The failure was found to have been a disconnection by ‘pull out’ of the OBV supply port with the consequence that fuel began to leak at a significant rate into the engine which overwhelmed the fuel draining capacity of the third port. The failed OBV supply port fitting as found pulled out of its housing. [Reproduced from the Investigation’s Powerplant Group Factual Report] The engine manufacturer estimated that following the pull-out, approximately 34 US gallons/130 litres of fuel would have been released into the engine core compartment during the period of just over two minutes between the fitting pullout and shut off of the engine fuel supply during the flight crew’s shutdown of the engine. At the time the fuel-fed fire started, it was estimated that with constrained draining of leaked fuel, about 19 US Gallons/ 70 Litres of fuel would have been inside the engine core compartment. Once the engine had been shut down, some of the remaining fuel would have drained onto the ground below resulting in the observed fuel pool which also subsequently ignited. On-site investigation also found that two of the four link rods which attach and support the OBV and related components to the engine were “severely worn” which would have facilitated sufficient movement to eventually lead to the ‘pull out’ which led to the supply