crew believed the Captain’s instruments to be correct and made control inputs that resulted in significant altitude and airspeed deviations.. The Investigation also made the following “Findings as to Risk” LOT Polish Airlines initial and recurrent flight training syllabus does not include practical training for an over speed warning event. Consequently, flight crews may respond improperly and exacerbate the situation.. Although revision 5 of the Boeing SB 767-34A0332 requires changes to chapters of the FCOM, it does not specify what the changes should be. Therefore some manuals may not be properly amended, thereby increasing the risk of crews being ill-informed of the status of the aircraft they operate.. The LOT Polish Airlines FCOM incorrectly states that the IAS DISAGREE and ALT DISAGREE EICAS messages will not be displayed on the occurrence aircraft during an unreliable airspeed incident. This increases the risk of a crew misidentifying a problem.. The installation of CVRs with less than 2 hours of recording capacity creates the risk that relevant information will not be available to accident investigators and that significant safety issues may not be identified.. During the initial examination and disassembly of the ADC, it was noted that there was a large build-up of dust and dirt inside the unit, which could cause an increase in the internal temperature.. And a further Finding was that: In the hold, with thrust at idle, the flight crew did not monitor the airspeed. In an attempt to maintain altitude, the autopilot increased the angle of attack until the stick shaker activated. During the recovery, the crew allowed the aircraft to climb through the flight’s cleared altitude, resulting in a loss of separation. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 8 March 2011. It contains a transcription of the relevant flight data and also briefly notes Safety Action taken by LOT. No Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation.