An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was available for the investigation but the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) was not stopped after the in flight events or after landing and was of no use to the Investigation. It was found that the Captain had accumulated 19,000 total flying hours including 8000 hours on type and the First Officer had accumulated 7000 total flying hours including 1800 hours on type. Both pilots had completed their most recent unreliable airspeed training 15 months previously. The aircraft commander had been in the role of PF and was occupying the left hand pilot seat with the autopilot (AP) and auto throttles (A/T) engaged. Suddenly, over a period of 5 seconds, the left hand airspeed indicator (ASI) and the left hand altimeter displays had simultaneously increased (from 276 to 320 knots and from 33000 to 33450 feet respectively). To re-capture altitude, the AP commanded a pitch down of approximately 2 degrees and an over speed warning activated. The PF response was to retard the throttles to idle and leave the AP engaged. The AP commanded a further pitch down and then a pitch up of around 8 degrees. The over speed warning remained on for about 40 seconds. The PF then disconnected the AP and initiated a manual climb with 12 degrees pitch up and the thrust still at idle. A second over speed warning corresponding to a false high reading on the left hand altimeter occurred. Having reached approximately FL354, a descent began. At FL347 with the over speed warning still active, stick shaker activation occurred and remained active for nearly 2 minutes with no crew response until descending through FL300 when the PF increased thrust. Within 9 seconds, the stick shaker stopped and shortly afterwards the fluctuations on the left hand ASI stopped. The aircraft continued its descent to FL297. Throughout this event, the First Officer’s ASI registered normally. The flight crew advised ATC that they wished to divert to Toronto because they had experienced an over speed and had problems maintaining altitude but did not declare an emergency. No further anomalies with the aircraft or its systems were encountered during the remainder of the flight. However, whilst in a hold at 10,000ft to burn off fuel, the thrust was reduced to idle with the AP engaged and ALT hold selected. As the aircraft slowed, the AP commanded an increasing pitch to maintain level flight until, when the pitch reached 7.6 degrees nose up, the stick shaker activated again. As the aircraft descended to approximately 9600 feet, the flight crew manually increased thrust (a maximum of 111% was recorded on the FDR) and the aircraft began to climb. Passing 9860 feet, the AP was disconnected and the aircraft exceeded its cleared altitude and lost separation with another aircraft that responded to a TCAS RA to avoid the conflict. After landing at Toronto, the flight crew filled out an aircraft technical report. When the aircraft