was inspected, no structural damage was found and no faults were identified in the air data system and the aircraft was released to service without needing any rectification. The Investigation was appraised of a similar transient fault on the same aircraft a month later on the opposite sector. In this event, the autopilot was disengaged and the aircraft was flown manually. The flight crew noticed a discrepancy between the reading on the left hand ASI and that on the right hand ASI and the Standby ASI. The over speed warning ceased and ASI indications returned to normal when the Captain changed his selected Air Data Computer (ADC) from normal to alternate. Unlike the 19 June 2009 occurrence, the aircraft did not pitch nose-up and there were no stick shaker activations. The Investigation noted that The Boeing 767 FCTM states that when correcting for an over speed during cruise at high altitude, flight crews must avoid reducing thrust to idle because this causes the engines to accelerate slowly back to cruise and may result in over-controlling the airspeed and a loss of altitude. However, in both events, the immediate reaction of the LOT crews to the over speed warning was to reduce the throttles to flight idle. In the event of a suspected unreliable ASI, the LOT Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) guides the flight crew to cross-check the Captain’s and First Officer’s ASI indications against the Standby ASI and states that a main instrument differing by more than 15 knots from the standby reading should be considered unreliable. If the reliable airspeed data source can be determined, the flight crew should select the reliable source (i.e. the other ADC). Tests conducted on the suspect ADC on the aircraft involved in these events disclosed a fault within the circuitry which would have led to the observed malfunction. The Investigation, noted with concern that the lack of any CVR data had precluded any analysis of crew decisions, actions or overall CRM during the incident flight. Although the right hand ASI did not display the same erroneous over speed information as the left hand one, it could not be determined when or if the First Officer became aware of the conflicting ASI indications, or if any such awareness was communicated to the PF. Since the ‘AIRSPEED UNRELIABLE’ checklist was not completed and the ASIs were not compared as required, the Investigation considered it probable that airspeed anomaly was not noticed. Some minor but pertinent differences between the EICAS messages generated on the incident aircraft and other aircraft in the LOT fleet were noted, as was some ambiguity in the FCOM amendment process. The Investigation made the following “Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors”: There was a fault within the phase locked loop (PLL) circuitry of the ADC which. resulted in sudden and erroneous airspeed and altitude indications on the Captain’s instruments. . The readings on the Captain’s instruments were not compared to those on the First Officer’s or the Standby instruments. Consequently, the