again. Such conditions may give rise to additional range in autorotation, and, as RRPM rises with increasing airspeed, the RRPM may be controlled at a reduced value (within the Flight Manual limits) by using additional collective pitch: this will normally maximise range. Similarly, in turns, due to the increased blade loading, RRPM will tend to rise, and the pilot may need to use small increases of collective pitch to keep RRPM within the manufacturer’s specified limits. When landing from an autorotation, the energy stored in the rotating blades is used to decrease the rate of descent and make a soft landing. A greater amount of rotor energy is required to stop a helicopter with a high rate of descent than is required to stop a helicopter that is descending more slowly. Therefore, autorotative descents at very low or very high airspeeds are more critical than those performed at the minimum rate of descent airspeed. Additionally, there will be a speed in autorotation above which the aft-dragging sections of the rotor blades extend along the blade span to the extent that the rotor will now begin to slow markedly. This airspeed will normally be expressed as a Flight Manual airspeed limitation for autorotation. Since RRPM is at its lowest value in a zero airspeed or low airspeed autorotation, and there is no effective airspeed for a flare manoeuvre prior to touchdown (discussed below), there may be insufficient inertia in the rotor system to dissipate the rate of descent before touchdown. This is particularly the case in helicopters with low-inertia rotor systems, such as, commonly, the R22, Rotorway models, Enstrom models and some others. Secondly, the range speed autorotation puts the helicopter into a configuration that will need to be modified in a timely manner in order for the pilot to execute an autorotative (or Engine-Off) landing. The helicopter will need to be decelerated to a suitable ground speed for touch down and ground-run along the landing area, either on its skid or wheeled undercarriage. The practical application of autorotation training is analogous to the ‘Practice Forced Landing Without Power’ carried out by aeroplane pilots. Just as in the aeroplane case, the helicopter pilot may simply re-apply power to initiate a go-around at any height, and (except in cases where the throttle must be manipulated by the pilot in co-ordination with an application of collective pitch) in most cases this will simply be matter of raising the collective lever and setting climbing power, with an appropriate adjustment of the pitch attitude. During autorotation the helicopter remains fully maneuverable, and a combination of turns and / or airspeed alterations may be used to adjust the flight path and to manoeuvre the aircraft to a suitable landing area. Autorotations to touch-down, or engine-off landings (EOL) are practiced routinely in almost all single-engine helicopters and are a required manoeuvre for skills tests. When conducting EOL training the instructor or examiner will retard the throttle or inhibit the engine governing system, so that the engine remains