An Independent Review of the broader issues surrounding the loss of the aircraft was subsequently ordered by UK Secretary of State for Defence and was announced on 4 December 2007 with the following Terms of Reference: In light of the Board of Inquiry report to: Examine the arrangements for assuring the airworthiness and safe operation of the Nimrod MR2 in the period from its introduction in 1979 to the accident on 2 September 2006, including hazard analysis, the safety case compiled in 2005, maintenance arrangements, and responses to any earlier incidents which might have highlighted the risk and led to corrective action;. Assess where responsibility lies for any failures and what lessons are to be learned;. Assess more broadly the process for compiling safety cases, taking account of best practice in the civilian and military world;. Make recommendations to the Secretary of State as soon as practicable, if necessary by way of interim report.. London barrister Charles Haddon-Cave QC, who had considerable prior experience of leading major Public Inquiries, was appointed to lead the Review. It was not found necessary to publish an Interim Report and the Final Report was published on 28 October 2009. It was sub titled “A Failure of Leadership, Culture and Priorities”. It confirmed that the loss of the aircraft had nothing to do with either the flight crew, or any other front line personnel, but was attributable entirely to gross failures in the organisational and safety culture of the senior management who had been responsible for the aircraft type being accepted as fit for operations. Whilst the analysis provided in the Review was made in a UK military context and a prevailing regulatory model that at the time bore little resemblance to the corresponding practices in civil aviation, it was recognised that the principle findings were readily transferable to such operations. The Review therefore became essential reading for those seeking to understand why organisational cultures must embrace operational safety in a meaningful way. The Review focuses primarily on: the comprehensive inadequacies of the ‘Nimrod Safety Case’ which was carried out in the period 2001- 2005, and which resulted in the continued operation of the aircraft type.. the organisational origins of poor operational safety oversight at the UK Ministry of Defence, including: No clear break in organisational responsibilities resulting in conflicts of interest between operational delivery and commercial pressures to make programme savings; Airworthiness becoming a part-time function; and Loss of technical skills within the organisations charged with assuring Airworthiness. No clear break in organisational responsibilities resulting in conflicts of interest between operational delivery and commercial pressures to make programme savings;. Airworthiness becoming a part-time function; and. Loss of technical skills within the organisations charged with assuring Airworthiness. missed opportunities to learn from lesser incidents which had occurred prior to the accident. The Review notes that many of the organisational causal factors which it has identified are not new and “echo those of other major transport accidents” in particular: the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia