two overwing exits located between rows 9 and 10 were not opened during the evacuation because passengers were “unable to open them” which added to the evacuation time. It was not clear whether passengers sitting nearest to the two overwing exits had received a one-to-one briefing on their use from a member of cabin crew. On receipt of the call from the aircraft of smoke from the cargo department and an imminent emergency evacuation, the controller taking this call then pressed a yellow alarm button, which communicated that there was “a full aviation emergency alert” to the airport RFFS, the regional Emergency Response Centre (ERC), the local area Rescue Department and to the airport’s central security control room. It was noted that the latter was the responsibility of the airport’s security contractor and was responsible for “dispatching escort vehicles to protect ground traffic at the airport”. The controller also made a PA call to the RFFS confirming the alert. Two minutes later, the controller elevated the “full emergency” to an “accident” by pressing the red alarm button and notified the RFFS that an emergency evacuation was in progress and that smoke inside the cargo compartment had been reported by the flight crew. All units advised of the situation responded in accordance with their applicable procedures with the first RFFS tenders reaching the site in just over a minute. Departures from runway 22R were immediately suspended and preparations were made to stop landings on runway 22L so that emergency service vehicles could cross it en route to the aircraft. Whilst en route to the aircraft, the RFFS Shift Supervisor, accompanied by other vehicles, used their radio to order that the cargo holds be kept closed until the aircraft evacuation had been completed and ordered airport buses for use in transporting the evacuated passengers back to the terminal and passenger airstairs to enable entry and inspection of the aircraft once evacuated. However, when these vehicles requested permission to cross ruway 22L, this had not been anticipated by ATC and was denied until an aircraft on final approach had been allowed to continue to a landing instead of being instructed to go around. Arrivals were then moved to runway 15 until the emergency was over. On eventually reaching the aircraft, the RFFS Shift Supervisor found that the evacuated passengers had been left unsupervised on the manoeuvring area for nearly eight minutes, many close to the newly active landing runway 15. He parked the lead vehicle some distance from the aircraft and told the passengers to gather behind it and wait for bus transport to arrive. He then located the Captain who confirmed that everyone was off the aircraft. The underfloor cargo compartment was then inspected with no evidence of fire found and with the arrival of the requested airstairs, an internal inspection of the aircraft was carried out, also with no findings. The source of the smoke was found to have been the right Liebherr Air Cycle Machine (ACM) which was found to