Whilst the aircraft was on taxiway ‘D’ heading towards departure runway 22R, a number of passengers saw grey smoke in mid-cabin which was intensifying and attempted to alert cabin crew. Some pressed their call buttons and others “were shouting and banging on the wall to catch the cabin crew’s attention”. One of the two cabin crew stationed in the aft cabin reported the situation to the senior cabin crew member (SCCM) by interphone and both then “grabbed halon extinguishers and began to find the source of the smoke”. The SCCM in turn reported the smoke to the Captain by interphone and requested permission for an emergency evacuation but “hung up before receiving an answer”. At this point, some passengers were reported to have stood up and begun shouting to the cabin crew that there was smoke inside the aircraft. The Captain stopped the aircraft, set the parking brake and notified ATC of “smoke inside the cargo compartment” and said that an emergency evacuation was intended. The SCCM then called the Captain again and said that they must initiate the evacuation. The Captain replied “yes” and the SCCM then told them that they would initiate it to which the Captain, “slightly perplexed” was recorded as replying “yes, alright”. The mandatory Emergency Evacuation Checklist was not run but the Captain then “turned on the evacuation signal” and, without making any cabin PA to announce the evacuation the cabin crew opened all four main exits where the evacuation slides deployed automatically. Some passengers reportedly mistook the sound of the evacuation signal as a smoke alarm signal and whilst some panicked, others behaved calmly. Many retrieved their carry-on baggage items and took these with them. It was reported that “during the evacuation some passengers rushed past slower-moving passengers, children were trampled over and passengers stumbled over cabin baggage in the aisle". In addition, when the main exits were opened, the engines were still running and the two cabin crew at the rear exits had to prevent passengers using these exits for a total of 33 seconds because the evacuation slides were “flapping and askew” due to the jet efflux. The first passengers to leave the aircraft did so using the forward left door, emerging directly ahead of a running engine in respect of which it was noted that the “intake suction danger area” (the risk of objects being ingested into the engine) extends 2.2 metres forward of the engine air intake. The Aerodrome Chart showing the taxi route of the aircraft and the evacuation site. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The opening of the doors generated an ECAM alert and in response, the First Officer shut down both engines by using the fire pushbuttons rather than the engine master switches. The flight crew reported that only then did they begin running the appropriate checklist procedures. The last of the 135 passengers was recorded as having left the 144 seat aircraft just over 2½ minutes after the evacuation had commenced. It was found that the