have a failed main bearing and seized rotor, a combination which had created the smoke observed to be building up in the cabin. This item had run 28067 hours since new. Before removal of the failed unit, it was demonstrated that running the engines at idle thrust not only generated smoke but simultaneously generated ECAM warnings of both AIR PACK 2 FAULT and AIR PACK 2 OVERHEAT. The flight crew made no reference to the appearance of either of these system warnings, the appearance of both of which would have required QRH action. Editor’s Note: this ACM is an on-condition component for which there is a repair scheme that is dependent on flying hours and cycles. No information on prior maintenance inputs in relation to this unit were included in the report. It was noted that the Flight Crew Emergency Evacuation Checklist was implicitly written on the assumption that any such evacuation would be initiated on the basis of information available directly to the fight crew rather than at the request of the SCCM based on circumstances in the cabin. However, execution of this Checklist is primarily designed to prepare for an evacuation and it ends with an instruction to initiate an evacuation if required. The failure of the flight crew to run this checklist or execute it accurately from memory and then directly initiate the evacuation by announcing it over the PA system three times and for the First Officer to then de-plane the aircraft to assist passengers on the ground could not be explained on the evidence available. It was also not clear why the Captain had informed ATC that there was “smoke inside the cargo compartment” instead of the smoke in the cabin which he had been made aware of. It was also not clear to what extent the cabin crew had followed their own procedures for conducting an evacuation. These required them to “firmly guide the passengers by using clear announcements and commands” by use of a megaphone as much as possible. It was noted that the circumstances where cabin crew are authorised to initiate an evacuation on their own initiative were procedurally confined to a situation which is considered “life-threatening” and no contact with the Captain is possible. This meant that their action in this event in seeking orders from the Captain when they considered an evacuation necessary were correct. In respect of ATC service, it was noted that the Airport Ground Operations Manual requires “all departures and landings” to be suspended if they observe an air accident at or near the airport (the condition which required the red alarm button to be pressed by the controller).This Manual then required that ATC “must allow the rescue units to freely drive to the occurrence site so long as aviation safety is not compromised”. It was not clear why this did not happen given that the notified “accident” occurred within the designated manoeuvring area. It was noted that there were “no procedures in place for escorting rescue