department vehicles without delay to an accident site which is on the manoeuvring area” nor were there “any standard procedures for how the escorts should meet the units to be escorted”. It was observed that “these inadequacies have not emerged in emergency exercises” and also that ATC lacked sufficient information about their role in accident situations. The failure ATC to follow existing instructions that all departures and arrivals must be held back when an accident happens was noted as was the fact that air traffic controllers do not normally participate in airport emergency exercises. Four Conclusions from the Investigation were formally documented: Evacuations initiated by the cabin crew are not normally practiced in commercial air transport.. The Emergency Evacuation Checklist is not well-suited for situations in which the cabin crew initiate evacuation.. In an accident, air traffic control must prevent additional damage from occurring and also suspend, when required, arriving traffic.. Helsinki Airport does not have effective procedures in place for providing unhindered access to rescue units, ambulances and police patrols to accident sites on the manoeuvring area.. Safety Action taken by Finavia, the operator of Helsinki Airport, during the course of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: In conjunction with the local centre of the Regional Rescue Department, the instructions regarding escorts in the aerodrome area have been updated.. A map has been prepared for the authorities with which they are able to communicate the precise position of an occurrence site to rescue units and which makes it easier for them to find their way to an occurrence site.. During a full aviation emergency and accident alert, Apron Control will always place a passenger boarding stairs vehicle on standby.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) ensure that operators, in their procedures and training, take into account the situation where evacuation is initiated without waiting for the captain’s command. [2019-S30]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) ensure that Airbus, in respect of their emergency evacuation procedures, re-evaluate the situation where it becomes necessary to immediately shut down the engines. [2019-S33]. that the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency ensure that Helsinki-Vantaa airport develops effective procedures that guarantee unhindered access for authorities in charge of, and participating in, rescue operations to an accident site on the manoeuvring area. [2019-S34]. The Final Report was published on 19 June 2019.