receiving this call, the APP controller transferred the flight to Bergerac TWR. Soon after the flight had left the APP frequency but before it had called TWR, the position of the flight (point M on the track illustration) breached the criteria for an MSAW activation at APP control which only occurred because the aircraft was more than 8 nm from the runway - it would have been inhibited within that range because Aquitaine APP were not responsible for ATS below 2500 feet QNH in a specified area around Bergerac airport. Four seconds later, the Captain contacted the TWR controller and, with the aircraft passing 1,240 feet QNH despite still being some way from the ‘BGC’, the flight was cleared to continue the approach. Twenty seconds later, with the aircraft now at point ‘T’ on the illustration, with the aircraft still more than 8 nm from the runway, at a recorded 842 feet agl and descending at almost 1,000 fpm, an EGPWS ‘TERRAIN’ alert was almost immediately followed by a ‘PULL UP’ Warning which neither pilot could remember hearing. As the ‘PULL UP’ sounded - at 797 feet agl - the crew pushed the TOGA button and initiated a go-around. FDR data showed that the resulting minimum terrain clearance was around 720 feet. Six seconds after the PULL UP Warning, another MSAW activation attributable to the aircraft was recorded by Aquitaine APP and soon after this, the crew told TWR that they were going around. After climbing to 4000 feet QNH and re-contacting APP, the flight then took up the hold at the ‘BGC’ NDB for approximately seven minutes before performing a second NDB ‘Y’ approach procedure to runway 28 and landing off it without further event. In a short discussion thereafter, both pilots recognised that they had lost situational awareness. It was noted that with the Bergerac METARs around this continuing to report light to moderate rain from an overcast at around 1100 feet as per the TAF which would have been seen by the crew before departure from London, the Investigation concluded that in all probability, the premature descent had been conducted not only in IMC but also “without external visual reference” of any sort.. The Aquitaine APP controller contacted the Bergerac TWR controller to advise of the two MSAW activations attributable to their final approach traffic in a call made 1 minute 20 seconds after the first and 44 seconds after the second by which time the traffic involved had already commenced a go around and notified TWR accordingly. It was clear that had the MSAW activation been available to the TWR controller in real time, it would have allowed indirect intervention by ATC nearly 30 seconds ahead of the EGPWS warning.. The Bergerac approach charts available to the crew included those for both the NDB and RNAV (GNSS) procedures. The Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) instructions on timed approaches like the NDB ‘Y’ approach were noted to require that when the approach was not encoded in the