FMS (which appeared to have been the case), the HDG and V/S modes were to be used and the MDA to be used was then to be the greater of the published MDA plus 300 feet or 1,000 feet aal.. The operator’s OM confirmed that the use of RNAV (GNSS) approaches was approved as per the charts supplied and both pilots were appropriately qualified but the list of approaches provided in the Aerodrome Brief for Bergerac did not include the available RNAV (GNSS) procedures.. The arrangements for the transfer of traffic inbound to Bergerac from APP service provided from the Aquitaine ACC at Bordeaux to Bergerac TWR at the time of the event specified that “For the NDB Y approach the transfer should be carried out when the aeroplane passes over the BGC beacon, once it is established on the procedure”.. The functioning of the MSAW system at the Aquitaine ACC was inhibited in parts of its area where the ACC was not responsible for the provision of ATS which included airports such as Bergerac which have a local CTR. There was no relay to Bergerac TWR of MSAW activations which occurred which occurred, as in the case of the two during this event, outside the zone where they were inhibited. The ATC regulations applicable to MSAW stated that if an MSAW is activated at a unit where the aircraft concerned is not being radar vectored (as in this case on both occasions), the controller must immediately inform the pilot using a specific phraseology which instructs him to check his altitude. However, this regulation makes no mention of the implied need for communication with other units and the Operations Manual at the Aquitaine-APP control unit made no mention of any coordination procedures in the event of MSAW activation for an aircraft on the frequency of another unit.. The Aquitaine APP controller stated that he had stopped monitoring the flight after he had cleared it for the NDB ‘Y’ approach and when it subsequently reported being inbound, he had “mechanically” transferred it to Bergerac TWR. Although he stated that he had observed the descent, he did not know if it was normal or not as he was not familiar with the NDB procedure involved and “did not understand the chart published in the AIP that the assistant controller had got out for this occasion”. He stated that having seen MSAW visual alert on his screen (he stated that he did not hear the subsequent MSAW aural warning) “he had hesitated calling the Bergerac control unit (as) he imagined that it was also equipped with the MSAW system and thought that a phone call could interfere with the TWR controller response". It was therefore only after observing the missed approach that he had called them.. The Bergerac TWR controller and their assistant stated that they had observed the flight “performing a racetrack far off to the south” on their radar display and that when the aircraft came out of the inbound turn