the missed approach procedure was ahead to 2,500 feet QNH. The NDB procedure available to the crew required a 1 minute 30 second outbound leg followed by a left turn onto final approach with descent from 2,500 feet only commencing once established inbound and subject to crossing the ‘BGC’ NDB, which is located 3.9 nm from the runway threshold, at 1440 feet QNH. Although the Captain stated that after several attempts by the First Officer to programme the FMS with the NDB ‘Y’ procedure, he was still encountering numerous discontinuities. The Captain added that as a result, he had not been satisfied with the vertical profile of the path created and had therefore asked for the approach to be carried out in HDG and V/S modes. He admitted that he had not then heard any response to this from the First Officer and with hindsight “considered that from this moment, he started to be overloaded with work - he had the impression that he was managing all the aspects of the flight on his own” and it would have been wise to have entered the holding pattern at the ‘BGC’ NDB rather than attempting to proceed directly outbound. The flight was cleared direct to the ‘BGC’ NDB descending to 2,500 feet QNH and subsequently crossed over it at just over 2700 feet QNH on a heading of 213° with the speed reducing through 216 KCAS, the AP engaged and LNAV and V/S modes selected. On reaching 2,500 feet QNH and still in LNAV mode, a left turn onto a heading of 097° was commenced (point 1 in the illustration below). An annotated ground track of the flight’s first approach and the initial part of the go around. [Reproduced from the Official Report] After completing this turn, an outbound leg lasting 25 seconds was then flown level at 2,500 feet before an LNAV left turn was commenced and, on instructions from the Captain, a descent commenced. This descent was contrary to the procedure requirement to remain at 2,500 feet until inbound and was initiated using V/S mode and a selected rate of descent of 900 fpm. After 26 seconds of this descent, the First Officer increased the selected rate of descent to 1,200 fpm. This was maintained for 40 seconds before being “progressively reduced” to 300 fpm as a left turn towards final approach was commenced. However, since 900 feet QNH was left as the selected altitude instead of selecting the missed approach stop altitude, this action subsequently had the unanticipated consequence that when the ‘ALT ACQ’ mode became active as 900 feet QNH was approached, the rate of descent would suddenly increase. Soon after the left turn had been started, and as the aircraft turned through a heading of 340° at a recorded altitude of 1,447 feet and at 175 KCAS, the Captain reported that they were “established inbound”, (this despite the fact that the procedure FAT was 274° and there was still 65° of turn to go) and on