An Investigation was commenced by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, after notification of the event by ATC the following day. The FDR was removed from the aircraft and sent to the BEA where its data was successfully downloaded. Relevant CVR data was overwritten as the flight crew involved did not report the event until the aircraft had operated both the return flight to London and subsequent flights. Individual interviews with the two pilots were conducted for the Investigation by the Irish AAIU one week after the event had occurred. The 57 year-old Captain had around 15,000 hours flying experience of which more than 6000 hours were on type. His EASA-issued IR (instrument rating) was endorsed for PBN, a requirement which from 25 August 2020 has since been removed with a new requirement which requires all IRs issued or re-validated from that date to include PBN competency. The 27 year-old First Officer, who was PF for the flight, had obtained his Commercial Pilot Licence (CPL) just over six months prior to the investigated event after completing an ab-initio integrated training course. He had then obtained a Boeing 737 type rating two months later and his IR was endorsed for PBN. He had a total of 430 hours flying experience of which all but 150 hours had been obtained on the Boeing 737. He had begun line training with Ryanair at the end of September and passed his final line check three months later, approximately a month prior to the investigated event. The flight under investigation was the third of the flight crew’s shared duty period - they had previously flown a London Stansted - Turin rotation. Prior to departure, both pilots were aware that the ILS and DME at Bergerac were out of service. The Captain decided that the First Officer would be PF until he took over for the landing in accordance with the Monitored Approach policy in place at Ryanair. Having also noted that the RNAV (GNSS) approaches for runways 10 and 28 at Bergerac were not listed as available in the operator’s Aerodrome Brief for Bergerac, the Captain determined that an NDB approach would be necessary and an approach briefing subsequently took place accordingly. An hour after takeoff, the flight was cleared to descend to FL 070 and the Aquitaine APP controller then queried whether the crew could accept an RNAV approach. With the Captain temporarily off frequency in order to obtain the Bergerac ATIS, the First Officer responded with “no...yes” and then requested the Bergerac weather. Two minutes later the APP controller asked again if the crew were intending to make an RNAV approach and this time, the Captain replied that they were going to carry out an NDB approach which was confirmed would be the NDB ‘Y’ approach for runway 28 (the NDB ’Z’ approach to the same runway required a DME so was not available). The applicable MDA for this approach was 840 feet QNH (Bergerac elevation 172 feet amsl) and