3D RNAV approaches rather than 2D ones for the same runway. These developments have rapidly reduced the sometimes already small number of non precision approaches being flown conventionally in some operators, including timed approaches flown using the HDG and V/S modes to the extent that there may appear to be little incentive to allocate adequate training time to them. The alternative of ceasing to use such rarely encountered procedures altogether is another option for such operators who already recognise that their reliance on them is very low. Contributory Factors were, in summary documented as follows: The nature of the approach procedure involved being an NDB approach without DME equipment and being probably flown without external visual references.. The initial preparation of the approach was probably incomplete or imprecise.. The approach clearance given by the controller, although it concerned the procedure that the crew thought they had prepared, seems to have called into question their action plan and obliged them to re-programme the FMS.. This late modification probably meant that the crew did not have enough time to agree with each other about what guidance mode was to be used which resulted in the Captain’s confusion with respect to the horizontal path actually being followed by the aeroplane.. Faced with these doubts, rather than opting for a holding pattern or returning to a conventional management of the procedure, this state of confusion led him to request the start of descent at a point which took the flight below the applicable minimum safe altitude.. Possible Contributory Factors were, in summary, also identified as follows: The Captain’s concerns, notably with respect to the noise nuisance in his headset which he perceived as extremely uncomfortable and his concerns as to the First Officer’s participation.. The First Officer’s low amount of experience in this type of approach, which, at the very least, did not enable him to perceive the inconsistency in the descent request given by the Captain.. The two pilots’ situational awareness which became seriously impaired.. The controllers’ lack of knowledge of the NDB procedures which meant that they did not effectively monitor the aeroplane’s flight path.. The absence at Bergerac of a MSAW system (or a remote MSAW display) and, failing this, the absence of emergency coordination procedures between the ACC providing APP service and Bergerac TWR following the activation of a MSAW.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included the following: Ryanair amended its OM to prohibit the use of V/S mode for timed non-precision approaches. amended its Bergerac Aerodrome Brief to include this proscription stopped including a list of available approaches in Aerodrome Briefs. amended its OM to prohibit the use of V/S mode for timed non-precision approaches.. amended its Bergerac Aerodrome Brief to include this proscription. stopped including a list of available approaches in Aerodrome Briefs. The DNSA (French ANSP) amended its initial and recurrent controller training in respect of MSAW at airports and the required response