and established on final approach, the crew had advised that they were going to fly a missed approach. The TWR controller said that “the flight path at this point did not appear abnormal”.. Editor’s Note: The Investigation Report does not mention the type of radar available to the Bergerac controllers but it appears from the above to be likely that only primary returns are displayed. The Captain reported that during the approach he experienced a problem with his headset, which was the standard one provided in the aircraft by the operator, whereas the First Officer was using his personal active noise reduction (ANR) headset. He explained that it had been necessary to increase the volume on his headset to hear what the First Officer was saying which had increased the level of static noise. He stated that during the descent, “the noise from the wind drag and rain increased causing his discomfort to increase to the point of having a headache”. The Investigation noted that ANR technology “plunges the pilot into relative silence” which creates an incentive for wearers not to raise their voice when talking and noted that the BEA has observed when playing back CVR recordings during other investigations that “pilots equipped with these types of headset seem to generally speak more quietly, even a lot more quietly”. It has also been noted that “ANR headsets generally differ from passive models by having a lower impedance (and that) introducing headsets with a different impedance into the audio system may produce signal amplifications, attenuations or even distortions”. It was found that Ryanair had not issued any directives on headset use in its aircraft.. Although the Captain was very familiar with NDB approaches and considered them to be simple, he was unaware that the First Officer had never flown any raw data timed NDB approaches. He considered that had he been aware of this, he would have managed the flight differently.. The EASA Part FCL requirements applicable to the IR and the PBN endorsement to it held by both pilots was noted as requiring merely that there must be “training in instrument approaches according to specified minima” but gave no details about the types of approach that must be carried out during such training. They also indicate that the flight test to obtain the IR “must include a non-precision approach” without giving more details about the type of non-precision approach to be carried out.. The EASA regulations in respect of the recurrent training and checking of commercial air transport pilots required that “when possible, the operator’s (six monthly proficiency) check must include at least one 2D approach operation (such as timed NDB approaches) to minima as PF”.. Following the 2010 ICAO request to member states to develop an implementation plan for PBN approaches, the DGAC has done so and begun work. By the time of this event, Bergerac had RNAV (GNSS) procedures with vertical guidance for both its runways. The DGAC Plan included an assessment of the usefulness of retaining