control.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators should depute experienced flight dispatch duties so that in case of emergency, timely (safety related) advice is given to flight crew.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators must implement flight following for every leg of all flights and the necessary resources (equipment & manpower) be clearly defined.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators must, during the period 15 November until 10 February (each year) make a senior pilot available in flight dispatch between the stipulated time (foggy weather) to provide to the flight dispatchers. These pilots must be supported by Met Officers etc.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators must take pro-active decisions well in advance for diverting flights which are due to arrive at fog-bound airports instead of accepting holding over a destination until Reserve Fuel / Minimum Diversion Fuel|minimum diversion fuel (MDF) is reached before diverting to the alternate, which leaves the flight crew to declare "minimum fuel" (as per ICAO) and puts undue pressure on ATCOs.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators must ensure that during the period of inclement weather, flight dispatch contacts the aircraft by available means (VHF/HF/ACARS/SATCOM) and relays the latest weather for destination and alternates. The Operations Controller must give his/her advice regarding weather trend. However the final decision remains with the Commander of the flight.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators must develop a fuel consumption monitoring system to be used in the computerised flight planning systems such as LIDO, NAVTECH etc specific to each aircraft registration or use the seasonal wind flight plan and the aircraft manufacturers data to avoid any error in fuel uplifts.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators must define alternates based on the weather trend (TAFOR).. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators should define two designated alternates (which have a defined IAP procedure for both runways) for all flights and ensure fuel for the most distant of these is loaded.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators must ensure that fuel policy is in line with the applicable DGCA requirements based on the statistical data for the last 15 days, which must include fuel for ATC delays, en-route icing, congestion at the destination airport, change of routing etc.. that all Flight Crew must be vigilant about the weather conditions at destination and alternates by seeking weather updates in flight from their company or ATC so that they can monitor weather trend at both destinations and designated alternates.. that all Flight Crew must, before operating any flight, be provided with details of watch hours, along with details of fire fighting etc. of all the airports in the area of operation in their pre-flight briefing folders.. that the DGCA should consider keeping All Weather Operations (AWO) simulator training for all weather operations separate from the normal IR/ PPC training / checks during initial and recurrent training.. that the DGCA should clarify if Monsoon simulator training is a one-time exercise or needs to be carried out annually for all flight crew. The same may be included in the 'Explanatory Notes of the Civil