An Investigation was carried out by an Indian AAIB Committee of Inquiry. The SFDR and the 2 hour SSCVR were recovered from the aircraft and their data were successfully downloaded. The tape-based QAR, which records the same data as the SSFDR, was accessed but found to be unserviceable with this status not recorded in the aircraft Technical Log. The 43 year-old Captain had 8,322 total flying hours which included 5,502 hours on type of which 3,039 hours had been in command on type. He was PF for the investigated landing and was Cat III qualified. The 46 year-old First Officer had 2,798 total flying hours which included 2,610 hours on type and was only Cat I qualified. It was established that the aircraft had been operating a four sector trip Delhi - Guwahati - Imphal - Guwahati - Delhi with an STA back at Delhi in mid evening. After a 50 minute stop at Guwahati on the return flight, the Captain loaded 500kg extra fuel because of the known destination congestion due to fog and departed on the night flight to Delhi. On arrival, the aircraft was No. 12 to land and was put in the hold for almost half an hour before being vectored onto the runway 28 ILS LOC. During this approach, the RVR dropped below the Cat I minimum and, after being told by ATC that the reported visibility at Jaipur was 2,000 metres, a diversion was commenced there. Weather at the other FPL alternate Lucknow was not checked and although at that point there was sufficient fuel remaining to reach both alternates, Jaipur was preferred because it was nearer. During the flight to Jaipur, the crew learned that the visibility there was deteriorating rapidly. After an ILS Cat I approach had been commenced with dual APs engaged, the aircraft ahead then went around after failing to acquire visual reference but as the crew did not at this stage have sufficient fuel to reach any other alternate which they were aware was both open and had better weather, they continued the approach. When the aircraft was at 1,489 feet agl, ATC reported that the RVR had dropped to 50 metres and "cleared the aircraft to land subject to minima". At 200 feet radio height, already (just) below DA, the Captain disconnected both APs and continued descent manually as he was not sure if he could carry out an auto land to a Cat I runway "in actual zero visibility". As the runway neared, the aircraft deviated to the left of the centre line before touching down left main gear first on soft ground 46 metres to the left approximately 1,000 metres beyond the threshold of the 2,797 metre-long / 45 metre-wide runway. During the touchdown and landing roll "the visibility was zero and the crew were unable to see any of the reference cues". They did report having "heard rumbling sound during landing roll" as the aircraft continued to roll/skid along the grass and it was subsequently