check the weather with ATC". Then "once the crew was made aware of the rapidly deteriorating visibility/ RVR at Jaipur", no discussions took place between the two pilots about the possibility of diverting to Udaipur, Jodhpur or Ahmedabad or about the use of auto land below CAT I minima once the crew had committed to a landing at Jaipur. They also acted contrary to SOP by continuing to use the landing lights, "which in such low visibility conditions impairs the forward vision [and] probably contributed to their late sighting of the approach and runway lights". It was considered that once committed to a landing below minima, "the decision to disengage the autopilot was the last inappropriate act which caused the aircraft to deviate to left from localiser resulting in the aircraft landing (with both main landing gears) on the soft ground". It was also noted that although the crew had "intimated" to Jaipur ATC that they "were committed to land" off the ILS approach there when 25 nm from the airport, they had not declared 'minimum fuel' to either Delhi ATC or Jaipur ATC while diverting. It was found that the availability of down-route and en-route weather information to crews like the one involved in the investigated accident was poor. Although Air India narrow body aircraft did not appear to carry HF radios which would have been able to receive scheduled HF VOLMET transmissions, there were no continuous VHF VOLMET broadcasts. Air India Flight Dispatch had shown little interest in the flight once it had departed Delhi on the first of its four sectors despite the winter fog season and had appeared to be somewhat disorganised and without access to relevant expertise to proactively advise Captains on the best options for diversion. Down-route self dispatch by aircraft commanders was also not the subject of any company policy. Insofar as TAFs were issued and available on the ground, only 6 hour TAFs were produced and use of 'TREND' in METAR reports was found to be patchy and no such information was being appended to Jaipur METARs at the time of the accident. However, the Investigation found that opportunities for the accident crew to be aware of airport present weather in flight or on the ground were present but the information was neither requested nor automatically provided by ground agencies. Specific concerns were identified about the widespread absence of the supposedly required instrumented (automated) RVR readings for all Cat 1 runways and the consequent reliance on 'Converted Meteorological Visibility' (CMV) to 'create' an RVR which could be compared with approach and departure procedure limitations. Jaipur Met Office personnel, who had not been providing RVR from their automated measuring system to ATC at the time of the accident were found to be "not very much conversant with the procedures for giving RVR" and it was stated that "the persons who were trained on the equipment were transferred out of airport office". It was also found that periodic calibration of the equipment was not