being carried out due to the lack of an appropriate agreement with the manufacturer at the time of installation. No NOTAM had been issued advising that the RVR equipment had not being calibrated. On a slightly different but directly relevant subject also indicative of poor airport operating standard, it was found that the airport ILS critical areas were not protected nor were there any cautionary notices displayed to help ground personnel avoid these areas. In respect of flight crew rostering, it was noted that DGCA guidelines for low visibility operations "emphasise that Airlines shall ensure that only those pilots who are adequately trained and certificated […] are rostered to operate flights during low visibility conditions from/to Delhi to ensure [continuity of] aircraft operation during low visibility conditions especially during CAT II and CAT III-A/B conditions" with all airlines expected to plan flights "as per the schedule separately filed for the [pre-defined winter] fog period". Evidence that simulator training for Air India pilots on low visibility approaches was inadequate was found, with the Captain reporting that he had last undergone a simulator check including a low visibility approach in September 2011. More generally, although Air India had a DGCA-approved SMS, neither pilot was aware of it or any company safety policy. Noting from CVR data that CRM had been poor during the accident flight, it was discovered that CRM training for Air India short haul pilots was delivered by instructors who had not undergone any specialised training and were not approved as such by the DGCA. It was found that despite being made immediately aware of the 'crash landing' of the aircraft in this accident, Company Operations had not activated the Emergency Response Plan (ERP) and "the officials at Jaipur including the Airport Manager were not sure whether they had undergone any training on this ERP or carried out any regular practice drills as stipulated". The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the event was "a combination of organisational factors and human error" as follows: The flight crew made an erroneous decision of diverting & continuing to an airfield with reducing visibility.. The flight crew attempted a manual landing in below minima conditions.. There was a lack of operational supervision and desirable ground support to flight crew.. Internal Quality Assurance processes had failed to capture relevant hazards which slipped through due to complacency.. There was insufficient oversight of flight operations. A total of 33 Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators should clarify flight dispatch policy for multi sector flights and clearly define the responsibility for the dispatch of flights.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators should ensure that proper training is provided to flight dispatchers by an authorised person including recurrent training as per DGCA requirements for preparing and interpreting the computerised flight plan for briefing purposes.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators should ensure that proper documentation on flight dispatch is maintained.. that the Operator/All Scheduled Operators should clarify the role of flight dispatch vis-à-vis operations