Aviation Requirements (CAR) for AWO'.. that the DGCA should consider ensuring that RVR is available below 800 metres for the purpose of take-off and landing at all airports. (Many regulators clearly define that below 800 metres visibility, all take-off minima are defined in RVR and the same matter must be clarified in DGCA requirements for AWO.). that the DGCA must ensure that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) defines Low Visibility Procedures for airports where Low Visibility Operations (below 800 metres visibility) take place. The AIP must carry this information.. that the DGCA should include declaration of fuel emergencies as one of the 'Safety Indicators' used in the State Safety Plan.. that the DGCA should issue approval/ certification to flight dispatchers.. that the DGCA should re-examine the process of converting Meteorological Visibility into RVR. A Safety Risk Assessment must be carried out by the DGCA (Air Safety & Flight Standards) and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to ensure its applicability at Indian airports.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) / Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) must provide VHF VOLMET facilities at airports like Varanasi, Ahmedabad, Nagpur, Bangalore, Guwahati, Calicut etc.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) / Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) must ensure that designated alternate (destination and en-route) weather as mentioned in the CAR Section 8, Series C, Part 1 (Table 9) is provided for 1 hour before and 1 hour after the ETA at an alternate based on appropriate METARs and/or TAFs which indicate that, at the alternate ETA, the ceiling and visibility at that airport will be at or above Table 9 of CAR Section 8, Series C, Part 1 (All Weather Operations) for dispatch purposes. The normal in-flight landing minima will be applicable. This procedure must be clarified in the 'Explanatory Notes' of the referenced CAR.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) must ensure that between 15 November and 1 February (each year), the watch hours of airports around designated alternates are defined / made available as NOTAM‘s and these airfields kept open till the last arrival of aircraft at the destination. This is especially important in the case of northern and eastern sector airports like Amritsar, Jaipur, Udaipur, Varanasi, Lucknow, Bhubaneswar, Agartala etc.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) / Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) must ensure that Delhi and all major airports maintain updated/ latest alternate weather information which can be made available to the flight crew on request especially whenever the weather deteriorates e.g. during a thunderstorm, due to strong surface winds or fog.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) must, based on updated statistical data, define the congestion period for all major airports in India and the information must be included in the AIP. The same information can also be made available on their website.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) / Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) should ensure that Met Offices at airports have all their equipment calibrated as and when required. In the event that such