found that part of the left main gear had rolled alongside and then into the boundary drainage ditch which ran parallel to the runway. The ground track of the aircraft from touchdown until it finally stopped after finally entering the runway is shown in the third illustration below. Once the aircraft had come to a stop, it was apparent that amongst other consequences of the off-runway landing, part of the left wing was missing after tree impact (see the illustration below) - which FDR data indicated had occurred at 109 KCAS - and the left landing gear had been seriously damaged. It was found that 2,400 kg of fuel remained on board. In the apparent absence of any fire or fire risk, "the flight crew never considered an emergency passenger evacuation" and waited for buses to arrive onto which the passengers could be disembarked. As there was "no disabled aircraft removal plan for Jaipur airport nor was there any appropriate equipment available for removal of disabled aircraft", it was necessary to close the only available runway there until the following day. The damaged left wing. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation found no evidence of any relevant pre-existing airworthiness deficiency or aircraft mis-loading and was therefore focussed mainly on the decision making process followed by the flight crew and the 'system support' for that process. SSFDR data showed that misalignment with the runway had developed after disengagement of the APs when unbalanced crossed-control commands had been made (predominantly left aileron against right rudder). It was noted that "the weather trend for Jaipur, Delhi & Lucknow should have been reviewed by the flight crew prior to departing from Guwahati for Delhi". And although 500 kg of extra fuel was uplifted by the Captain in the expectation of weather-related delays at Delhi, there had been no information from either Flight Dispatch or ATC on this. En-route to Delhi, in the absence of any VHF VOLMET, the crew did not listen to ATIS broadcasts or ask ATC for the latest Delhi, Jaipur and Lucknow weather. Also, since Lucknow was not only the first designated alternate but also had a serviceable CAT II ILS facility, it was considered that since the crew was not CAT II/ III compliant and the weather at all these locations may well deteriorate below CAT I during the evening, the first choice for diversion should have been Lucknow and that it was inappropriate to initiate an approach at Delhi "with RVR fluctuating toward the lower end of CAT I conditions for runway 28" and worse on other runways. Delhi ATC were not asked for the Jaipur and Lucknow weather and Air India Flight Dispatch passed the crew a Jaipur METAR which was 2 hours old and which gave the visibility there as 2,000 metres. This on its own was likely to have misled the flight crew and influenced their decision to divert to Jaipur, although even when en route there, the crew "had not made any effort to