Having acknowledged the emergency call, the controller should immediately inform the supervisor and/or colleagues of the situation. Warn adjacent sectors and airfields: emergency services at the potential diversion airfields will welcome as much warning as possible.. The likelihood is that the runway will be closed when the subject aircraft lands with obvious repercussions for other inbound aircraft.. Best practice embedded in the ASSIST principle could be followed: (A - Acknowledge; S - Separate, S - Silence; I - Inform, S - Support, T - Time) A - acknowledge the fire/smoke problem, ask for the crews’ intentions when the situation permits, and establish whether the crew is able control the fire/smoke;S - separate the aircraft from other traffic, provide accurate and optimal vectors, prioritise it for landing (assist with a minimum track mile pattern if requested), keep the active runway clear of departures, arrivals and vehicles;S - silence the non-urgent calls (as required) and use separate frequency where possible;I - inform the airport emergency services and all concerned parties according to local procedures;S - support the flight experiencing fire/smoke problems with any information requested and deemed necessary (e.g. type of approach, runway length and aerodrome details, etc.);T - provide time for the crew to assess the situation, don’t press with non urgent matters. The ATCO serves as the focal point for dissemination of information to other agencies, such as the diversion airfield or Rescue and Fire Fighting Services, which have a legitimate need to know. Once the pilot has communicated their intentions, the ATCO should be able to provide concerned agencies with: Aircraft situation, position and intentions;. Time to touch down;. Post landing intentions (stop on runway for inspection, immediate evacuation, etc);. Any critical information that can be obtained from the affected aircraft on a "non-interference" basis such as: Presence of dangerous goods; Number of persons on board; Fuel remaining, etc.. Presence of dangerous goods;. Number of persons on board;. Fuel remaining, etc..