An Investigation was carried out by the Comisión de Investigación de Accidentes e Incidentes de Aviación Civil (CIAIAC) aided by the successful recovery and playback of Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data. It was established that with the First Officer as PF, the audible detected sound of engine failure had been rapidly followed by flight deck indications of left engine low oil pressure and fire and by annunciations of left engine thrust reverser unlocked and of toilet compartment smoke. ATC had been advised of an emergency situation and a return to Barcelona requested with radar vectors although this request was not met and a VOR/DME procedure was given. There had been no delay and the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services had been alerted in good time but it was considered by the Investigation that the ATC Service had failed to keep communications concise and thus contributed to the level of “agitation” of the already busy flight crew whilst the engine fire warning was continuing. Fortunately, the crew had had the airfield in sight once they turned towards it which avoided what might otherwise have been an avoidable increase in flight deck workload. It was considered that whilst the flight crew had handled the emergency “adequately and without any consequences for the passengers” there were aspects of their performance which had not been in accordance with procedure. The emergency had been advised informally without the use of MAYDAY and the slightly uncoordinated initial response had evidenced poor Crew Resource Management with the resultant workload imbalance leading to the Captain taking over as PF. He had then, contrary to SOPs, disconnected the AP. During the approach, the applicable single engine checklist had not been fully completed and as a result, the flap override selection had not been made with the result that the correctly selected 20° flap setting had triggered five successive Mode 4B GPWS/TAWS alerts shortly before touchdown, which had not elicited any crew comment or response but would have required a go around had Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) prevailed. The contained failure of the GE CF34-3B1 engine was eventually found to have been caused by fatigue failure of a fan blade attributable to details of the manufacturing process being used at one of the four approved suppliers. Consequent vibration caused secondary damage and was considered to have led to the loss of both upper and lower fan access cowls (which were not recovered) and to the annunciation of a reverser unlocked warning (although it did not deploy) and, probably, the toilet smoke warning which had also been activated. The fire which started and continued occurred in the accessory gearbox compartment and burned through the fire seal into the aft compartment. The Investigation was unable to conclusively determine the origin of the fire but concluded that it continued because it was fuel fed due to the failure of the crew to select the failed engine thrust lever from idle to fuel cut off. The in-service blade failure