was the first to have occurred to the CF34 -1/-3 engine type, but during the course of the Investigation, a second similar failure occurred to an aircraft being operated by Atlantic Southeast Airlines in the USA on 24 May 2007 en route at FL230.The mode of failure and the blade manufacturer were the same as in the earlier case but there was no fire. As a result of their concern “that the throttle gearbox retention screws cannot withstand the extreme vibration loads that result from an FBO event and that this could result in the loss of engine fuel shutoff capability” the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) issued the following Safety Recommendation on 5 March 2008: That Transport Canada require Bombardier to redesign the retention feature of the Canadair Regional Jet-100/-200 aircraft engine throttle gearbox to ensure that it can withstand the loads generated by a fan blade separation or similar event. (A-08-03). In respect of the flawed blade manufacturing process and the secondary damage risks at failure, the NTSB issued six further Safety Recommendations on the same day that The FAA: Require GE Aviation to define a reasonable maximum cycle limit below 4,717 cycles since new for Teleflex-manufactured CF34-1/-3 fan blades, considering the two failures and available data, and require that the blades be removed from service before that limit is exceeded. (A-08-04). Require GE Aviation to include dwell time fatigue testing in the CF34-1/-3 fan blade manufacturing process requirements to verify that any modified manufacturing process adequately reduces the possibility of the presence of aligned alpha colonies in the finished part. (A-08-05). Require GE Aviation to make modifications to the CF34-1/-3 engine design and ensure that an engine (imbalance) event will not cause the engine to catch fire. (A-08-06). Require GE Aviation to revise the CF34-1/-3 engine manual so that it clearly specifies the aft actuator rod hose elbow orientation and the requirement for adequate slack in the hose. (A-08-07).. Require a one-time inspection of the aft actuator rod hoses installed on all CF34-1/–3 engines to ensure hose integrity during an (imbalance) event. (A-08-08). Require that all operators of Bombardier Canadair Regional Jet-100/-200 airplanes incorporate Bombardier’s redesign of the engine throttle gearbox retention as recommended in Safety Recommendation A-08-03. (A-08-09). The explanatory letters issued by the NTSB with their Safety Recommendations to both Transport Canada (A-08-03) and the FAA (A-08-04 to A-08-09) are accessible under ‘Further Reading’ and contain detailed technical discussion not published by the CIAIAC. Appropriate Safety Action was taken by GE to “reduce the aluminium content of the material used to manufacture the blades and to control the wear and replacement of the tools used to machine the tangs that attach the blade to the fan dusk”. The formal conclusion of the Investigation was that: “The failure of the left engine (on the subject aircraft) was caused by the separation of one of the fan blades resulting from dwell time fatigue cracks that initiated from areas of aligned alpha colonies in the titanium microstructure