“specific default conditions together with respective annunciations and aural alerts”. Pilot action to directly disengage the AP triggers both a 2½ second amber blinking annunciation of the AP annunciator on the PFD and a single low/high/low chime. An automatic disconnect triggers a red blinking annunciation on the PFD and a single low/high/low chime. The former must be cancelled by the flight crew using the AP quick disengagement switch on the control column. The G550 Pitch Trim System is conventionally configured and employs two mechanically actuated elevator trim tabs which can be manually or electrically controlled. Manual trim control is achieved by rotation of the elevator trim control wheels located on either side of the central pedestal and electrical trim control is achieved by use of the elevator trim switches on the outboard horn of each control column (see the illustration below) which control movement of the trim tabs through the elevator trim servo and bracket. These control column elevator trim switches are “dual/split-switches”, both halves of which must be moved in unison for a trim change signal to be generated. If they are held long enough for the pitch trim control limits (+21°or -7°), this will result in the annunciation of an Elevator Trim Up/down message. Since there was no DFDR record of an automatic AP disengagement during the excursion nor were any “AP Fail” and/or “Elevator Trim Fail” messages, an un-commanded electric trim input could be discounted. The most likely scenario was therefore that a manual input to the control column elevator trim switch led (as per system design) to a ‘normal’ AP disengagement and eventually triggered the “Elevator Trim Down Limit” message. DFDR data also allowed the elimination of full nose-down pitch trim having been commanded by the AP which left manual inputs as the only probable source. Nothing was found during the crew interviews or other findings to discount the likelihood that AP ‘normal’ disengagement and full nose-down pitch trim were caused by the Captain’s unintentional input to the control column elevator trim switch.Situational awareness of all three pilots thereafter appeared to have been materially deficient. In particular, there was no evidence to suggest that any of the pilots on the flight deck had appreciated that the abnormal pitch trim setting was the cause of the control problem. Both the First Officer and the Relief Captain “commented that the PF was not pulling the control wheel effective enough and seemed to be fixated on it with little response during the incident”. Had this not been the case, it was considered that it might have been possible to recover the situation with much less height loss. Three Causal Factors were formally documented as a result of the Investigation as follows: Trim Movement and Autopilot Disengagement. It is probable that during the critical phase of approach, inadvertent pilot input was applied to the elevator trim switch causing the AP to disengage and the pitch trim to move to full nose-down limit. The trim balance on the aircraft’s pitch was