After notification from ATC, a Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Division of the Civil Aviation Department of the Government of the Hong Kong SAR. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the DFDR and QAR but relevant data on the 2-hour CVR was overwritten during the subsequent flight to Beijing. It was found that the 48 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the sector concerned, had a total of 13, 619 flying hours which included 283 hours on type. The 29 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,810 flying hours which included 143 hours on type. A 47 year-old Relief Captain was also included in the crew and was occupying the supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck. He had 14,400 hours total flying experience which included 508 hours on type. Both Captains had been released to fly the G550 in command after completing the conversion requirements in September 2012 and, after gaining a year’s experience on type, both had been further trained and qualified as Line Training Captains on the type in November 2013. DFDR data showed that at just over 9nm from touchdown whilst on a closing radar heading to the ILS approach to runway 07L and shortly after levelling at 2,000 feet QNH in accordance with its ATC clearance, the aircraft’s pitch reduced significantly and a descent from that altitude rapidly reached a rate of 3,800 fpm. At 1,583 feet agl, an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alert was annunciated but the descent continued and at 692 feet agl, an EGPWS PULL UP Warning occurred. The Captain stated at interview that he had found the control column “unusually heavy to pull” when seeking to arrest the sudden descent and added that both the First Officer and the Relief Captain had tried to assist, the latter by leaning forward and trying to help by pulling the control column on the left hand side as well as advancing the thrust levers. He stated that collectively, they “eventually managed to pull the control column sufficiently to regain control of the aircraft attitude”. DFDR data showed that the aircraft came to within 499 feet of the sea at about 7 nm from the intended landing runway and that just 48 seconds had elapsed from the point where the AP had been disengaged until the aircraft recovered to a positive rate of climb. Maintenance actions in response to the Captain’s post-flight Technical Log entry reporting a “potential operational problem with the horizontal stabilisers” which included functional checks of both the horizontal stabiliser and the elevator, did not identify any aircraft defect. The Investigation found no evidence that aircraft loading, meteorological circumstances or any other airworthiness issue had contributed to the excursion or the ability of the crew to recover from it and therefore continued by focusing on a review of the actions of the flight crew. It was noted that ‘normal’ (manual) or ‘abnormal’ (automatic or un-commanded) disengagement of the G550 AP is determined by