central nervous system is not operating correctly.. The area of the brain that controls breathing does not send the correct signals to the breathing muscles. No effort is made to breathe for brief periods. The area of the brain that controls breathing does not send the correct signals to the breathing muscles. No effort is made to breathe for brief periods. People with narcolepsy can fall asleep virtually any time (e.g., while working, talking, driving a car). These sleep attacks can last from 30 seconds to more than 30 minutes. Narcolepsy is a chronic disorder affecting the part of the brain where regulation of sleep and wakefulness take place. Narcolepsy can be thought of as an intrusion of REM sleep into the waking state. It causes a person to: Suddenly lose muscle tone and control when awake (cataplexy). Not be able to move or speak while falling asleep or waking up (sleep paralysis). Have vivid dreams while falling asleep or waking up (hallucinations).. Research suggests that the cause of narcolepsy is a lack of a chemical called hypocretin in the brain. This chemical stimulates brain cells and helps promote wakefulness. It is not known why hypocretin is missing in people who have narcolepsy. Some factors that may work together to cause a lack of hypocretin include: Infection. Loss of certain brain cells due to brain injury, toxins and/or the body’s destruction of its own tissues (autoimmune reaction). Changes in hormones. Stress.. The prevalence of narcolepsy has been calculated at about 0.03% of the general population. Onset can occur at any time throughout life, but the peak onset is typically during the teen years. Narcolepsy has been found to be hereditary as well as being associated with some environmental factors. Restless leg syndrome (RLS) is characterized by sensations in the lower legs that make a person uncomfortable and causes the uncontrollable urge to move the legs in order to relieve the discomfort. RLS can make it difficult to fall asleep and stay asleep. People with RLS often do not get enough sleep and may feel tired during the day. This condition can be worsened by stress and can result in decreased quality of sleep. One variation of RLS is periodic limb movements in sleep (PLMS), which is characterized by leg movements or jerks that typically occur every 20 to 40 seconds during sleep and can greatly disrupt it. These movements fragment sleep, leaving the person with excessive daytime sleepiness. Usually, it is the bed partner that makes the person suffering from PLMS aware that there is a problem. RLS Type: Causes: Primary RLS: Hereditary. no cause can be found runs in families (genetic link). no cause can be found. runs in families (genetic link). Secondary RLS: Caused by a disease, other condition or a medication.. Causal diseases or conditions: iron deficiency (with or without anemia), kidney failure, diabetes, Parkinson’s disease, peripheral neuropathy, rheumatoid arthritis, pregnancy. Medicines that can cause RLS: antidepressants, antiseizures. Causal diseases or conditions: iron deficiency (with or without