speed reduced became less so and by around 80 knots “full scale rudder deflection was insufficient to overcome the effect of the brake”. Checks were carried out to establish the relationship between full rudder pedal displacement and pilot seat position and in particular the potential effect on the braking. These found that if the seat was adjusted towards the maximum forward position, a possibility existed that “a pilot could inadvertently apply brake pedal pressure”. In the light of this finding and those of normal system function other than high speed loss of the NWS system, the relevant content of both the type rating training course and the aircraft operator’s recurrent training provision were examined. It was found that neither included any practical experience of steering the aircraft at high speed with the NWS inoperative. The QRH drill for a NWS failure was only covered in the simulator during type rating training, was only required for a P1 rating issue and was only relevant at taxi speeds. The objective of this drill was stated as being to re-engage the NWS and it contained no handing advice nor was it a memory item. It was found that despatch with the NWS system inoperative was possible under the MEL for aircraft subject to EASA or Transport Canada oversight but not for those subject to FAA oversight. Release to service under MEL provisions refers to advice contained in Supplement 14 of the AFM. It was observed that the Captain’s expectation had been that rudder pedal movement would control the aircraft’s direction. When this did not occur, he “would have needed to recognise his inadvertent braking” and either take his foot off the right brake pedal or begin differential braking as detailed in the FCOM. Given that only four seconds elapsed from the aircraft starting to veer right even though full left rudder was being applied and departing the runway and that he had not been trained in the use of differential braking at high speed, "its use did not immediately occur to him”. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: As a result of a fault, the NWS went into free castor shortly after touchdown. During the subsequent landing roll, directional control of the aircraft was lost, and the aircraft departed the right side of the runway and onto the grass. The commander, in applying left rudder to try to keep the aircraft straight, had inadvertently applied some right braking. As the aircraft slowed, full left rudder was unable to counteract the effect of this braking. Safety Action arising from the investigation findings was noted as having included: The Aircraft Operator issued a Safety Alert to its pilots which provided guidance on how to ensure that the brake pedals are correctly adjusted for use by each individual pilot to reduce the chances of unintended brake pressure application occurring at speeds above taxiing speed.. The Aircraft Manufacturer: amended the QRH and the AFM Non-Normal Procedures for the aircraft type to provide direct