with the hottest, the right outboard brake, indicating only 2 on a 39 point. It was noted that this scale indicates red if the value exceeds 16. An examination of the available recorded data indicated that both pilots had made control inputs in response to the observed deviations which followed the NWS failure and it was clear that right brake applications had been made by the Captain at the same as his increasing left rudder input with this brake application being initially supplemented by the same input by the First Officer. The final veer to the right was shown by the data to have commenced at around 70 knots groundspeed and the right main gear left the paved surface 10 seconds after the full left rudder application had been made. The extent of right brake use appeared to have been unintentional. Checks on both the rudder and brake systems found them to be fully serviceable. The Onboard Maintenance System was found to have recorded an NWS fault corresponding to the EICAS-annunciated fault which indicated a loss of nosewheel steering and a consequent reversion to free castoring of the nosewheel. After electrical powering the aircraft hydraulic systems, a NWS sense and range check was carried out and the system was found to operate correctly used via both the steering tiller and rudder pedals. No additional system faults were recorded on either the EICAS or the SCU status display so a series of NWS components were removed and sent to the OEM for further testing This identified one fault which would have resulted in a 0.42° steering offset to the left and another in the left hand steering actuator which would have triggered a NWS failure annunciation and thereby reversion to free castoring mode. The relevant Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) entry was found to state only that: When the steering system is disarmed or with no WOW signal, the nosewheel steering reverts to free castor and shimmy damping to ensure stability within the nosewheel circuit. In the free castor mode of operation, steering is accomplished only through differential braking and differential thrust. Simulator testing found that even with a significant crosswind component, which in the case of the investigated event was only 10 knots, “it was relatively straightforward to control the aircraft with a combination of rudder and differential braking”. The effect of inadvertent braking was then examined noting that even relatively light pressure results in brake pressure being applied. It was found that with full rudder pedal deflection applied, “articulation of the opposite foot can apply pressure on the brake pedal and, unless the pilot is conscious of this effect, it is relatively easy to inadvertently apply braking which opposes the sense of the rudder deflection”. Further tests commencing from an on-ground speed of 130 knots applied approximately half brake pedal deflection on one side as the trust levers were retarded to idle with only rudder then used to try and maintain directional control. This was initially successful but as