A Field Investigation was carried by the UK AAIB. The CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded. The aircraft operator also provided QAR which was the same as that recorded by the FDR. The Nose Wheel Steering (NWS) Steering Control Unit (SCU) was also removed from the aircraft and its data downloaded for analysis. It was noted that the 53 year-old Training Captain who was in command had accumulated a total of 11,506 flying hours which included 3,864 hours on type. The Co-pilot, for whom no flying experience information was given, was undergoing route training and the two pilots had been operating together for the past week, operating to Sao Paulo then to Newark before their current duty period which involved positioning the aircraft to Bedford to pick up a passenger for the flight to Liverpool. With the Co-pilot acting as PF the flight was described as having been “completely routine”. ATC provided radar vectors towards an ILS approach to 2,285 metre long runway 27 and it was completed normally in accordance with a VREF of 115 KIAS to a normal touchdown on a damp runway surface. The prior intention of the crew was to exit via RET ‘E’ (see the illustration below). Braking was not hard and around 50% reverse thrust was selected. The aircraft operator’s SOP requires the PM to make an 80 knot call and, if the junior pilot is PF for the Captain to then take over control at 60 knots. The aircraft ground track superimposed on part of the Liverpool Aerodrome Chart. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Shortly after touchdown, FDR data recorded a Master Caution at 100 KCAS associated with a NWS FAIL message on the EICAS. Neither pilot recalled hearing this but two seconds after its annunciation, the CVR records the Captain calling “Nose Steering Fail”. The Captain stated that prior to making the 80 knot call, he had detected that the aircraft was deviating to the right and had taken control. Having done so, he had “instinctively applied left rudder to try and keep the aircraft on the centreline” but despite quickly reaching full left rudder deflection, was unable to correct the deviation. He did not recall making any use of differential braking as a means to assist this attempt at correction but did then recall having noticed the NWS FAIL message on the EICAS. As the groundspeed continued to reduce, the aircraft began to turn increasingly rapidly towards the right in the vicinity of RET ‘E’ and the Captain was unable to prevent it departing the paved surface at a recorded 40 knots groundspeed following which it travelled approximately 30 metres before coming to a stop. Having informed ATC of their situation, the flight crew started the APU before shutting down the engines and when the RFFS arrived, the crew and passenger vacated using the forward door integral airstairs. Whilst running the shutdown checks, it was noticed that the brake temperatures were lower than normal