In large transport aircraft, an unusual attitude is usually defined as a nose up pitch attitude greater than 25 degs, a nose down pitch attitude greater than 10 degs, a bank angle greater than 45 degs or flight within these parameters but with airspeeds inappropriate for the conditions. The first priority is to ensure that these parameters are never exceeded.. The second priority is to correct any exceedence as rapidly as possible.. The third is to understand the principles involved in recovering from an ‘upset’.. The fourth priority is never to stall the aircraft. A fully stalled aircraft is out of control – recovery from the stall must be achieved before initiating recovery from any unusual attitude.. Different types of aircraft have different flying characteristics and may need different recovery techniques. For example, swept wing aircraft behave differently to straight wing, T-tailed aircraft can exhibit different stall characteristics to those with other configurations. It is important always to heed the manufacturers’ and operators’ advice relevant to the specific type. Some modern types have fly-by-wire primary control systems with built in protections which prevent the exceedence of critical flight parameters and which can ensure recovery without manual response from the flight crew. However, flight crews must clearly understand that certain system failures can degrade these protections such that the aircraft is left with reduced or no protections and become, in effect, a ‘basic’ aircraft. Successful recovery from any significant loss of control is likely to be a challenging aircraft handling experience for which both theoretical understanding and simulator practice will be needed. However, pilots should be aware that even the most modern simulators cannot fully simulate the aircraft behaviour or its handling characteristics beyond the point of stall. NOTE: High performance/aerobatic capable aircraft will have a more rigorous and dynamic set of rules and recovery actions for any upset recovery, often also known as 'Unusual Positions'. These are not covered within this article. This article only provides a basic introduction. The reader should take this important subject further by following the references below (See: Further Reading).