The other existing (or possible new) mitigation barrier at each stage are: Design and strategic planning Airspace design gives positive separation – This includes the systematic separation of aircraft using de-conflicted RNAV/RNP based routes. Free-route airspace may reduce the effectiveness of this barrier. Procedure design for transponder malfunction - Procedures can be defined and implemented for transponder loss. If primary radar is available, flight plan correlation should be maintained. If not (e.g. in the subsequent sector), procedures may vary, and may include military escort or in extremis refusing the aircraft entry or returning the aircraft to an airfield. Procedures may also include assistance of the supervisor or planner. The aircraft should also be cleared out of RVSM airspace. Appropriate ATC system design and calibration – In the case of total loss of a transponder, design and calibration of an effective tool for alerting ATCOs in the event of: a dropped track (across one or more sectors); or a non-correlated track (i.e. without flight plan data); or a track without secondary surveillance information (i.e. primary only, but still correlated).. Airspace design gives positive separation – This includes the systematic separation of aircraft using de-conflicted RNAV/RNP based routes. Free-route airspace may reduce the effectiveness of this barrier.. Procedure design for transponder malfunction - Procedures can be defined and implemented for transponder loss. If primary radar is available, flight plan correlation should be maintained. If not (e.g. in the subsequent sector), procedures may vary, and may include military escort or in extremis refusing the aircraft entry or returning the aircraft to an airfield. Procedures may also include assistance of the supervisor or planner. The aircraft should also be cleared out of RVSM airspace.. Appropriate ATC system design and calibration – In the case of total loss of a transponder, design and calibration of an effective tool for alerting ATCOs in the event of: a dropped track (across one or more sectors); or a non-correlated track (i.e. without flight plan data); or a track without secondary surveillance information (i.e. primary only, but still correlated).. Demand and capacity balancing Sector capacity planning - Ensuring that the number of aircraft the controller can handle if a track is lost is appropriate i.e. ensuring that sector capacity limits are appropriate by “sensitivity analysis” of track drop scenarios.. Sector capacity planning - Ensuring that the number of aircraft the controller can handle if a track is lost is appropriate i.e. ensuring that sector capacity limits are appropriate by “sensitivity analysis” of track drop scenarios.. Traffic planning and synchronisation Use of voice reporting - Use of voice reporting is particularly relevant as a barrier during sector handover, when defined procedures may be followed. If silent handover is used, this barrier may not be applicable. If the ATCO has detected the track drop/loss, it may also be used within a sector for improved situational awareness.. Use of voice reporting - Use of voice reporting is particularly relevant as a barrier during sector handover, when defined procedures may be followed. If