Tool supports the evaluation of the following airborne collision avoidance systems: • TCAS v7.0 • TCAS v7.1 • ACAS Xa CP1 No other systems are supported. The RA Compliance Tool relies on accurate input data, specifically vertical rate measurements/estimates and timing data. It is the responsibility of the user of the Tool to ensure the data is sufficiently accurate and reliable. The tool is provided free of charge and may be used solely for the user’s own purposes and may not be modified or distributed to third parties. IATA and EUROCONTROL do not accept any liability for any inaccuracies in the results presented by this tool, nor recommend any specific course of action to be taken as a result of evaluations using this tool. IATA and EUROCONTROL do not give warranties of any kind and shall in no event be liable for damages in connection with the use of this tool. 1. Confirm that you have read and understood the Disclaimer. 2. From the pull-down menu select the collision avoidance system that the aircraft was equipped with. 3. Select the RA sense. 4. Select the RA strength (type). 5. Enter the aircraft vertical rate in fpm (ft/min.) at the time of RA. Precede the number with a minus sign (–) for descent rates. 6. If the RA requires a specific vertical rate (e.g., a Maintain Vertical Speed RA) enter the required rate in fpm. Otherwise, leave it blank. 7. In the evaluation window, enter the time at which the compliance should be assessed, in seconds after the time when the RA was issued. 8. Enter the vertical rate in fpm which was achieved at the time which is assessed. Precede the number with a minus sign (–) for descent rates. Do not evaluate the pilot response at the beginning of the RA. Start your evaluation at 6 seconds in order to achieve an objective view of the pilot response. 9. Optional: enter data for up to two subsequent times. 10. Press “Evaluate Initial RA!” button. The evaluation category will be shown at the bottom of the window. 11. Optional: repeat the steps described above for a subsequent RA. 12. The evaluation results can be saved as a PDF file – select “Download as PDF” button. For illustration purposes, a generic IVSI will show aircraft’s vertical speed at the time of the RA and indicate red and green bands corresponding to the RA. The corresponding TCAS aural annunciation is shown underneath the IVSI. Only single-threat RAs can be evaluated using the tool. Press the “Reset” button before starting a new evaluation to clear all the previous entries.