RAs are rare events, but when they occur, the situation may be critical, thus correct, and immediate flight crew action is required, unless it would jeopardize safety of the aircraft. Any delayed or incorrect flight crew response may negate the effectiveness of the RA, their actions will be the most important single factor affecting the performance of the TCAS system. If the pilots decide not to respond to an RA, they not only negate the safety benefits provided by their own TCAS system, but also jeopardize the safety of all other aircraft involved in the encounter. In order to support aircraft operators and ANSPs in their investigations to determine whether the response to TCAS RA was timely and correct, a Pilot TCAS RA compliance tool has been made available. The tool calculates and grades (based on the IATA/EUROCONTROL Guidance Material Method B) the RA response by the flight crew. The following pilot response categories are used: • Following: the pilot’s reaction is consistent with a manoeuvre towards the required vertical rate, and with the anticipated acceleration and reaction time (including the required vertical rate being achieved); • Weak Response: the pilot has made an adjustment in vertical speed in the required direction, but insufficient in terms of vertical speed or acceleration to fulfil the requirement; • No Response: any change in the vertical speed is within the measurement noise and therefore no response is registered; • Opposite: the change in vertical speed performed by the pilot is in the opposite vertical sense compared to the instruction generated by the TCAS; • Excessive: the response exceeds the required vertical rate. The above-mentioned response categories are assigned considering the following: • The pilot has to process and respond to the RA and is allowed a time budget of 5 seconds to start the required manoeuvre (as per the standard pilot response as defined in the ICAO ACAS Manual); • The pilot is expected to maintain a vertical acceleration of 0.25g; • The vertical rates provided in the radar recordings are subject to noise / altitude quantisation and tracker lag; therefore to take account of this imperfect data a vertical rate tolerance of ±300 ft/min. is allowed for in the assessment of pilot compliance. The assessment method compares the achieved vertical rate with certain pre-defined thresholds to determine the compliance. The thresholds are dynamic (varying with the time of evaluation) and take account of a response time and an acceleration phase as defined in the standard pilot response model. More information about the assessment of pilot compliance with TCAS RAs and the method used can be found in the IATA/EUROCONTROL Guidance Material. (Note: The Guidance Material covers two Methods – A & B. The tool herewith covers only Method B, as it is more sophisticated and nuanced). The RA Compliance Tool is intended for post-event operational evaluations of pilot compliance to ACAS Resolution Advisories. Neither the tool nor any of its code is to be used in any operational system. The RA Compliance