An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). The Glider was equipped with a FLARM collision avoidance system that was switched on during the entire flight and provided GPS position data. The Falcon 2000 was equipped with an FDR but data from this was not read - ATC radar data were accurate enough to establish its flight path. It was noted that the Captain of the Falcon 2000, a Spanish national born in 1978, had a total of 7,000 hours flying experience which included 2,500 hours on type and stated that he “regularly flew to aerodromes where aircraft were flying through Class E airspace under IFR (and) would also often see VFR traffic there”. The First Officer, a Norwegian national born in 1969, had a total of 5,450 hours flying experience which included 3,100 hours on type. The Glider Pilot, a Swiss national born in 1958 had a total of 908 hours flying experience which included 37 hours on type and held a Swiss-issued ICAO glider pilot licence. The glider pilot had planned to carry out passenger flights from Amlikon and had commenced flying in the early afternoon. He did not switch on the transponder that was fitted to his glider on departure and decided that “it would only be switched on if and when required”, although he did switch on the FLARM system. He used an aerotow to reach a release at 8590 feet QNH to the south of Amlikon and then tracked northwest and then north to return to the vicinity of Amlikon (see the first illustration below). By the time he passed west abeam the small airfield at Sitterdorf, whose frequency he was listening out on in accordance with practice at his gliding club, he was flying a constant track at approximately 5540 feet QNH. At the same time, the Falcon 2000, in receipt of ATS from the Zurich ACC sector which provided approach control service to IFR traffic using St. Gallen-Altenrhein and Friedrichshafen, had just turned onto base leg for an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to runway 10 at St. Gallen-Altenrhein on an opposite track to the northward tracking glider and was descending through 5770 feet for 5000 feet on QNH, the altitude of the ILS 10 FAF and associated holding pattern. Once level, the recorded ground speed was down to approximately 165 knots. As the two aircraft approached on almost directly reciprocal tracks at practically the same altitude, the glider pilot reported having “noticed a business jet up ahead on the right-hand side of his aircraft” and had “watched it pass" at what he estimated to have been “100 metres or more”. He stated that “he was not alarmed since other aircraft frequently flew past at a similar distance in this airspace” but did admit that he found it “extraordinary, however, that the aircraft was a larger business jet and that it was flying at practically the same altitude”. He added that he had “also not known that the