flying altitude of aircraft before descending on the runway 10 ILS at St. Gallen-Altenrhein was 5000 feet” and noted that “this information was not marked on the glider map”. At almost the same time, the Falcon 2000 pilots saw a glider in their 2 o’clock relative position “at a slightly higher altitude” and were about to turn left onto the ILS 10 LLZ. They immediately reported the sighting to ATC stating “glider very close to the right, about thirty to forty meters right hand side”. After completing their flight, the crew subsequently modified their estimate of the distance between the two aircraft to 60 metres and noted that “the glider pilot was clearly visible under the canopy” although no evasive manoeuvre would have been required even if they had not been about to make the left turn onto the ILS. The Falcon 2000 Captain stated that he was “aware that there could be VFR traffic” in the airspace involved but also that he was “astonished that the ATC were completely unaware that a glider was in the approach area for the runway 10 ILS at St Gallen-Altenrhein”. Since the glider’s transponder was switched off, it was not visible on ATC radar monitors or on the Falcon 2000’s TCAS. The flight paths of both aircraft are shown in the illustration below. The minimum separation was estimated from available recorded data as 660 ± 100 metres laterally and 40 ± 25 metres vertically. The key to the encounter was that it took place in Class ‘E’ airspace in which ATS is only required to separate IFR traffic from other IFR traffic. Information on known VFR traffic may be offered but in this case, the VFR pilot chose not to switch on his transponder and not to listen out on the frequency which was likely to be working IFR traffic, both choices which he was entitled to make. It was noted that in the Class ‘E’ airspace involved, it was only mandatory to carry and switch on a functioning transponder when flying in excess of 7000 feet amsl - and for gliders, even this requirement only applies “if sufficient electrical supply is guaranteed”. It was noted that around Friedrichshafen Airport north of Lake Constance, there is a TMZ but that there is no similar designation for the adjacent Swiss airspace around St. Gallen-Altenrhein. The Investigation noted that this airspace issue - IFR flights being controlled on arrival and departure routes which pass though Class ‘E’ airspace that is not also designated as a TMZ amounted to a “Safety Deficit” which had been identified in previous investigations and is a problem which is “not restricted solely to individual airports or specific types of aircraft, but exists in the entire airspace over Swiss territory and affects all aircraft”. It also noted that safety recommendations to address this had been made as a result of investigations into loss of safe separation events in 2012 and 2015 but that at the time of publication of this latest