investigation report “none of these recommendations had been implemented, nor was there a specific implementation plan”. However, since implementation of these recommendations would also address the Safety Deficit identified in this investigation, the STSB did not issue a new safety recommendation. The Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was “the fact that the two flight crews did not visually identify each other’s aircraft in a timely manner”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The instrument approach being flown by the Falcon 2000 was in Class ‘E’ airspace, in which air traffic control does not provide separation between IFR and VFR traffic.. The transponder of the glider was not switched on, which was not mandatory.. The glider pilot was not in radio contact with the relevant air traffic control unit, which was not mandatory either.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event by the Cumulus Gliding Club, owner/operator of the glider involved, involved inviting a member of staff from air traffic control to present on the issues surrounding operations at St. Gallen Altenrhein airport and their consequences for operations out of Amlikon airfield. Amongst the actions which it was then agreed could be taken by glider pilots to reduce the risk of a collision in this shared airspace were: Keep a good look out in Class E airspace. Do not insist on right of way. Keep cloud distances. Switch on the transponder if installed. Respect IFR approach flight paths. Use the radio either actively or passively. Always tune in when within any TMZ. A ‘Safety Advice’ was issued targeted at “the Aero Club of Switzerland (AeCS) and all airspace users” as follows: The Aero Club of Switzerland should raise awareness amongst its members of the fact that increased IFR traffic is to be expected in Class E airspace which borders on Control Zones (CTR) and Terminal Control Areas (TMA) of regional airports such as St. Gallen-Altenrhein. Keeping the transponder switched on continuously and making contact with the aerodrome controller of the respective aerodrome to communicate their own position and flight altitude are the only possible ways, besides ‘see and avoid’, to make a VFR aircraft detectable by IFR traffic. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 20 August 2019 and subsequently published on 5 September 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made. The Investigation assigned the event to ICAO AIRPROX Category ‘B’.