An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC). It was established the approach, with the aircraft commander as PF had been unstable and conducted at excessive speed and a high rate of descent with a number of Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) warnings generated. The Investigation established that the aircraft commander had been PF and had intended to make an ILS approach to Runway 09 at Yogyakarta and had briefed the co pilot accordingly. However, ATC at Yogyakarta cleared the aircraft for a visual approach with a requirement to proceed to long final and report runway in sight. Although the crew acknowledged the visual approach clearance, they continued with the ILS approach without informing ATC. It was found that at 10.1 miles from the runway, the aircraft was 1427 ft higher than the published ILS IAF of 2500 ft at 283KIAS. The aircraft was then descended steeply in an attempt to reach the runway but the airspeed increased excessively. Because the aircraft was being flown at speeds that were in excess of the wing flap operation speed, the copilot elected not to extend the flaps as instructed by the PF. During the approach, Warnings and Alerts from the GPWS/TAWS were activated on 15 occasions. The co pilot called for a go around but the PF continued the approach with flaps at 5 degrees and the aircraft reached the ILS GS near the landing runway threshold. It was noted that 5 degrees is not a landing flap setting. The aircraft crossed the threshold, 89 feet above the runway, at 232 knots airspeed, 98 knots faster than the required landing speed for flaps 40 degrees. and touched down at 221 knots, 87 knots faster than landing speed for 40 degrees flap. Shortly after touching down, the copilot called, with high intonation, for the PF to go around but this was ignored. The actual approach profile compared to the ILS procedure is shown below in a diagram taken from the official Report. The aircraft was flown at an excessively high airspeed and steep descent during the approach and landing, resulting in an unstabilised approach.. The aircraft commander did not follow Company procedures that required him to fly a stabilised approach and he did not abort the landing and go around when the approach was not stabilised.. The co pilot did not follow Company instructions and take control of the aircraft from the aircraft commander when he saw that he was repeatedly ignoring warnings to go around.. The aircraft commander’s attention became channeled and fixated on landing the aircraft.. The aircraft commander did not respond to 15 Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS) alerts and warnings and two calls from the copilot to go around.. The Indonesian DGCA lacked a mechanism for ensuring the continued safety standard of flight operations at Garuda.. The Indonesian DGCA had not filed a difference with ICAO with respect to its inability to comply with the Standard for the runway end