Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA), That it reviews its policy, procedures and implementation of flight operation’s surveillance, to ensure that DGCA achieves and maintains adequate and appropriate regulatory oversight.. To the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA), That it ensures that airline operators have procedures to provide: (a) the passenger lists to the crisis center, within 1 hour of an accident, to assist in identification of victims and survivors, and notification to next of kin (b) the cargo manifest to the crisis center, rescue and fire fighting services and the National Transportation Safety Committee, within 1 hour, to enable hazard mitigation at the accident site.. (a) the passenger lists to the crisis center, within 1 hour of an accident, to assist in identification of victims and survivors, and notification to next of kin (b) the cargo manifest to the crisis center, rescue and fire fighting services and the National Transportation Safety Committee, within 1 hour, to enable hazard mitigation at the accident site. To the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA), That it reviews the procedures used by airline maintenance organisations for ensuring that flight recorders meet the relevant manufacturers’ specifications with respect to specific aircraft systems such as EFIS or non-EFIS systems. The annual inspection procedures for flight recorders, including functional checks, should also be reviewed to ensure that all parameters are being recorded in accordance with CASR 121.343 and ICAO Annex 6, Part I. 3. 4., Table D-1. The method of inspection should follow the manufacturer specification.. To the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA), That it reviews the Yogyakarta runway complex to ensure that the runway end safety areas (RESA) meet the dimension Standards prescribed in the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Annex 14.Particular attention should be given to: (a) ICAO Annex 14 Paragraph 3.5.2 (Standard) that a Runway End Safety Area (RESA) shall extend from the end of a runway strip to a distance of at least 90 meters. (b) ICAO Annex 14 Paragraph 3.5.3 (Recommendation) that for a Code number 3 airport a runway end safety area (RESA) should, as far as practicable, extend from the end of a runway strip to a distance of at least 240 meters. If the DGCA is unable to meet the RESA Standard in accordance with ICAO Annex 14, it should file a difference with ICAO as soon as possible.. (a) ICAO Annex 14 Paragraph 3.5.2 (Standard) that a Runway End Safety Area (RESA) shall extend from the end of a runway strip to a distance of at least 90 meters. (b) ICAO Annex 14 Paragraph 3.5.3 (Recommendation) that for a Code number 3 airport a runway end safety area (RESA) should, as far as practicable, extend from the end of a runway strip to a distance of at least 240 meters. If the DGCA is unable to meet the RESA Standard in accordance with ICAO Annex 14, it should file a difference with ICAO as soon as possible. To the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA), That it reviews the procedures and