As result of this investigation, the NTSC issued 19 Safety Recommendations: To Garuda Indonesia, That Garuda Indonesia review its fuel conservation incentive program policy to ensure that flight crews are in no doubt about its intent, and that there is no perception that such a policy could compromise the safe operation of aircraft.. To Indonesian airline operators, That they ensure that their flight crews are trained and checked in ‘GPWS specific’ simulator training sessions, for the vital actions and required responses to Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS) and Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System (EGPWS) warnings.. To Indonesian airline operators, That they review the procedures used by their maintenance organisations for ensuring that flight recorders meet the relevant manufacturers’ specifications with respect to specific aircraft systems such as Electronic Flight Instrument Systems (Electronic Flight Instrument System) or non-EFIS systems. The annual inspection procedures for flight recorders, including functional checks, should also be reviewed to ensure that all parameters are being recorded in accordance with CASR 121.343 and ICAO Annex 6, Part I. 3. 4., Table D-1. The method of inspection should follow the manufacturer specification.. To Indonesian airline operators, That they ensure that published procedures take into consideration the runway end safety area (Runway End Safety Area) requirement when calculating performance specifications for operations into airports with runways having a RESA that does not meet the ICAO Annex 14 Standard.. To Indonesian airline operators, That they include the Flight Safety Foundation (FSF) Approach-and-Landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) and Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT) awareness modules in their recurrency training programs and conduct initial ALAR and CFIT training for flight crew members who have not yet completed such training.. To Indonesian airline operators, That they ensure that published procedures provide for: (a) the passenger lists to be sent to the crisis center, within 1 hour of an accident, to assist in identification of victims and survivors, and notification to next of kin (b) the cargo manifest to be sent to the crisis center, rescue and fire fighting services and the National Transportation Safety Committee, within 1 hour, to enable hazard mitigation at the accident site.. (a) the passenger lists to be sent to the crisis center, within 1 hour of an accident, to assist in identification of victims and survivors, and notification to next of kin (b) the cargo manifest to be sent to the crisis center, rescue and fire fighting services and the National Transportation Safety Committee, within 1 hour, to enable hazard mitigation at the accident site. To the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA), That it ensures that airline operators train and check their crews, in the simulator, for the vital actions and required responses to GPWS and EGPWS warnings.. To the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA), That it ensures that airline operators have published procedures that take into consideration the runway end safety area (RESA) requirement when calculating performance specifications for operations into airports with runways having a RESA that does not meet the ICAO Annex 14 Standard.. To the