An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that the First Officer was PF for the approach to destination and that whilst both flight crew had operated to Gatwick at night before on a number of occasions, they had not landed on Runway 26R/08L before. It was noted that as the two parallel runways at Gatwick are only 200 metres apart, they cannot be used simultaneously and that Runway 26R/08L, which usually functions as one of two parallel taxiways to the north of the main runway 26L/08R and is only used as a runway to facilitate maintenance occupation of the main runway in quiet periods, usually at night. It was found that they had been aware before their departure from Malta through sight of Notice To Airmen information that a runway change at their intended destination was planned to take effect about 15 minutes before their expected arrival time. However, when they approached Gatwick they were early and, as a consequence, were initially told to expect runway 26L. When this was later changed to a surveillance radar approach to Runway 26R, the flight crew did not re-brief themselves on the approach or runway lighting which would prevail. It was established that at about 4 miles from touchdown, the flight crew had: “discussed and resolved their doubts concerning the identification of the runway so that thereafter they were both convinced that they were landing on the correct one”. The Investigation noted that a very similar incident had occurred at Gatwick five years previously when as BAC One Eleven had landed on Taxiway 2 in the belief that it was Runway 08L. Some of the Safety Recommendations made after that event had not been implemented by the UK CAA on the grounds that they were “not necessary” and as a consequence, the un-implemented content was repeated in the recommendations made as a result of the latest investigation since the non implementation was considered to have (again) played a direct role in a very similar occurrence. Causal Factors as follows were identified by the Investigation (reproduced verbatim): Runway 26R was clearly visible throughout the approach but the pilots looked for and selected a pattern of lights to the right of it because they assumed erroneously that 26R was in fact 26L and they knew that the designated runway had to be to the right of this.. The flight crew had not briefed themselves on the lighting they were expecting to see on Runway 26R once the change of runway had been confirmed.. The crew’s misinterpretation of the visual cues was facilitated by: (a) The similarity between the night time view of Runways 26L and 26R with associated taxiways to the right which are marked with green centerline lighting. (b) The use of Runway 26R sometimes as a runway with edge lighting and sometimes as a taxiway with centreline lighting. (c) The green centreline lights of Taxiway 2 were set at a brilliance of 30% until the aircraft was about