2 miles from touchdown when they were reset to 10%. Whilst the lights were at the brighter intensity, the chance of mistaking Taxiway 2 for the runway was considerably increased and the mistake was possible at an earlier stage in the approach.. (a) The similarity between the night time view of Runways 26L and 26R with associated taxiways to the right which are marked with green centerline lighting. (b) The use of Runway 26R sometimes as a runway with edge lighting and sometimes as a taxiway with centreline lighting. (c) The green centreline lights of Taxiway 2 were set at a brilliance of 30% until the aircraft was about 2 miles from touchdown when they were reset to 10%. Whilst the lights were at the brighter intensity, the chance of mistaking Taxiway 2 for the runway was considerably increased and the mistake was possible at an earlier stage in the approach. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 12 May 1994 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: AAIB UK Aircraft Accident Report 3/94 Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation, one whilst it was in progress and two more at publication of the Final Report from where all are reproduced verbatim below: (The CAA ensure that) the lighting of runways and taxiways at London Gatwick Airport should be re-examined with particular reference to the elimination of any possible confusion for pilots identifying Runway 26R/08L and Taxiway 2A. Recommended modifications include (a)Rendering the green centreline lighting of Taxiway 2 invisible to pilots on approach to Runway 26R/08L. (b) The removal of the white strobe lights sited either side of Runway 26L/08R, which were originally installed to assist in the identification of this runway when 26R/08L was commissioned, leaving the strobe lights at the thresholds of 26R/08L in order to facilitate its positive identification. (93-66 made on 19 November 1993). (a)Rendering the green centreline lighting of Taxiway 2 invisible to pilots on approach to Runway 26R/08L. (b) The removal of the white strobe lights sited either side of Runway 26L/08R, which were originally installed to assist in the identification of this runway when 26R/08L was commissioned, leaving the strobe lights at the thresholds of 26R/08L in order to facilitate its positive identification. (93-66 made on 19 November 1993) The CAA should revise the content of the Gatwick Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcast in the light of the guidelines contained in ICAO Document 9426 (ATS Planning Document). Any advice concerning runway lighting and other identifying features when Runway 26R/08L is in use should be at the beginning of the broadcast rather than the end. (93-67). A further review of the lighting at Gatwick Airport should consider in particular: (a) The modification of the green centreline lighting of Taxiway 2 to make it uni-directional and switchable for the direction in use. (b) The development of systematic procedures to manage the choice of lighting selection. (c) Shielding, where possible, of all extraneous lighting so as