More than 20 years of in-flight experience shows that the probability of lithium-battery fires occurring anywhere, especially in flight operations, remains low but the potential severity is high. In thermal runaways, burning batteries ignite adjacent batteries, and may ignite surrounding combustible materials. Investigators of incidents aboard transport-category aircraft typically find that — in the worst cases — they involve flames, smoke, fumes and repeated explosions that eject extremely hot gases and molten-metal electrolyte from batteries, potentially causing severe injuries and significant damage. Thermal runaways always concern aviation safety researchers. This prolonged chemical reaction can be triggered by a short circuit, improper use of batteries or PEDs, physical abuse, failure of protective systems, manufacturing defects or extreme external heat. Historically, thermal runaways have been startling and disorienting for unwary crewmembers and passengers, and in safety experiments, resultant fires were especially hazardous when they spread to hidden areas of aircraft. Compliance by lithium-battery manufacturers and users with all technical precautions, safe-handling instructions and firefighting practices still play a highly significant role in the low probability of serious in-flight incidents, numerous authorities say. Overall, according to a 2016 magazine article by Airbus experts, “The air industry has become more aware of the specific characteristics of lithium batteries, and the associated risks can now be mitigated. Procedures have been developed to address the risks for lithium batteries being part of the aircraft design, those belonging to passengers’ or crews’ carry-on items, or indeed procedures linked to the shipping of lithium batteries as cargo. … A good awareness of risks posed by lithium batteries [among] both airlines’ personnel and their passengers is crucial.” Specific details about various types of lithium batteries must be considered to correctly manage their risks, the authors said. The article notes that in the early years of investigating lithium battery–powered smoke-fire-fumes incidents in aircraft cabins, causal factors included faults allowing internal short circuits tied to design, manufacturing, component integration and packaging shortcomings. These causal factors were less frequent than human factors, especially so-called “user abuses” comprising negligence, failure to comply with technical instructions, and physical damage to batteries from accidents and careless mishandling. In the past 10 years, efforts to increase passenger awareness of lithium battery risks and compliance with restrictions have focused on airline-passenger mutual responsibility for mitigating the risk. The following basic safety principles, with few changes since the arrival of the entirely new devices beginning around 2015, still apply to the environment of typical passenger aircraft: Follow rules about what can be carried and what cannot be carried in checked passenger baggage;. Buy lithium batteries only from reputable sources that meet international safety-test standards (no recalled/damaged products or counterfeits);. Only carry PEDS with lithium batteries installed in carry-on baggage; and,. Protect lithium batteries (whether installed in a PED or as a spare) against short circuits and accidental crushing/damage (i.e, exposure to manual or electric seat mechanisms that can cause overheating and thermal runaways).. International lithium battery requirements for states and safety recommendations aimed at airlines also address the