had instructed the CRJ crew to commence an early left turn "when safe and able" and followed that with advice of "essential traffic", a Cessna Citation calibration aircraft holding "to the south of the aerodrome". By this time, the A320 was passing 1,300 feet and the CRJ had already reached 1,800 feet and levelled off. It was noted "the controller allowed [the ICAO Doc 4444 PANS-ATM radar] minima to reduce below 5nm" but also that the CRJ crew had failed to advise the controller that the clearance to make a left turn into the circuit "could not be complied with […] even though they (had) read back the controller’s clearances" in that respect. This was identified as contrary to Chapter 2 of ICAO Doc 9432 which details General Operating Procedures and states in paragraph 2.8.3.10 that "If at any time a pilot receives a clearance or instruction which cannot be complied with, that pilot should advise the controller using the phrase 'UNABLE' and give the reasons". The A320 crew 'Before Take Off Checklist' as read by the PM and confirmed by the PF was found to contain an item requiring the crew to check that the approach is clear of traffic. In the case of the A320 departure, it was noted that it was the Captain as PM who would have needed to make the check as well as read the checklist item. The Operator advised that just nine days prior to the event under investigation, they had changed their Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to allow the A320 to be taxied from either seat and also noted that the A320 "was a fairly new aircraft" on the Port Elizabeth route. In respect of the ATC context for the investigated event, it was noted that: The TWR Visual Control Room was lower than many others in South Africa and abroad taking into account the fact that the aerodrome was licensed for international flights.. Port Elizabeth is one of the windiest places in South Africa and the prevailing wind can have a profound effect of the ground speed of the aircraft on the approach, as upper winds might vary substantial in speed, strength and direction relative to surface winds.. With clear skies, some aircraft types, including the CRJ series of regional jets, were less visible on the approach to runway 26 than others.. On a sunny day, there is a significant brightness/reflection/glare on the sea for much of the time making it very difficult for the controller to visually observe aircraft on final approach. Glare shields which the controller can move up or down to try and alleviate the problem are installed inside the TWR Visual Control Room (VCR) but if a controller takes their eyes off an approaching aircraft and they wanted to refocus, they might not be able to pick up the aircraft again.. Although a local radar display was available to TWR controllers and was able to provide the distance from touchdown of aircraft on approach "with the aircraft