point, when the 737 passed behind them airborne”. The Investigation noted that at the time the Investigation was being conducted, material on the ANSP website included pictorial representations of runway incursions at various airports. The one for Brisbane is reproduced below and shows that between 1 January 2000 and 31 May 2005, there were 17 reported runway incursions at Brisbane with 35% of those incidents involving vehicles alone or vehicles towing aircraft. Three of these incursions were reported as having occurred at the taxiway H4 intersection with runway 01 with all three involving vehicles. The 2004 publication by the ATSB of a Research Report into Australian runway incursions (referenced below) was also noted. An annotated diagram of the situation (reproduced from the Official Report). The Investigation sought to examine “possible factors that resulted in an experienced controller providing a clearance for a tug driver to cross an active runway in front of a departing aircraft” given that the controller involved had believed that the required coordination had been completed. It was “considered likely that one or more of the following factors” had led to this erroneous ‘mindset’: the (GND controller) did not have any strips or memory prompts relating to vehicles on the runway other than hand-written scratch pad entries. coordination was not required to be completed on intercom lines, and the required coordination did not include reference to the vehicle callsigns. callsigns of the two tugs were only distinguished by the two-digit number suffix. the normal practice was to not coordinate with the ADC for a clearance to cross the runway until it was thought one would become available.. In respect of the decision of the 737 commander to continue the take off, the Investigation concluded that: “There is insufficient data available to make a thorough assessment with regard to the decision of the 737 crew to continue with their departure, after observing the tug crossing the runway. However, given the good visual conditions, the distances involved and the fact that both pilots had sighted the tug, there is no reason to believe the actions of the crew in continuing the takeoff was inappropriate.” The Final Report was published on 28 June 2007.