issued this further descent to the A320, the Instructor, not satisfied that the safety margin between the two opposing track aircraft would be sufficient, took over control of the Arrival Radar position from the trainee whilst remaining at the unused Final Radar workstation. He then instructed the A320 to turn left onto 320° and the Departure Co-ordinator confirmed that the light aircraft had visual contact with the A320. Thirty five seconds after the instruction to turn left, the A320 was instructed to reduce speed to 210 KIAS and turn right onto 360° with the intention of crossing it through the ILS LOC to take up right hand downwind positioning to the 23 ILS. The Cessna, by now on the ILS LOC, was then instructed to reduce speed to 180 KIAS to allow departures. Almost simultaneously, an Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) activation occurred on the screens and speakers at the Arrival Radar and Approach Coordinator positions but neither occurred at the Final Radar position now being used by the Instructor to run the Arrival position. Verbal intervention by the Trainee and the Approach Coordinator communicated the conflict to the Instructor who then responded with an instruction to the A320 to “turn right, immediately right heading east” followed by a confirmation to the Cessna to descend on the ILS. Each aircraft confirmed visual contact with the other. As the aircraft continued briefly to converge at the same altitude of 7000 feet, both received TCAS TAs followed almost immediately by TCAS RAs, the A320 a preventive one to “Monitor Vertical Speed” (i.e. to continue without change of altitude) and the Cessna a corrective one to “Descend, descend now” which coincided exactly with its acquisition of the ILS GS. Radar recordings indicated that the proximity of the two aircraft reached a minimum approximately 18 seconds after the annunciation of the co-ordinated TCAS RAs and was a lateral separation of 0.7 nm when an altitude difference of 375 feet existed. This time of minimum separation was also 64 seconds after the Instructor had taken control from the Trainee. It was noted that the Commander of the A320 involved had been performing the duties of PM during the incident flight and that the First Officer had a total of 981 hours as a pilot, all obtained on the type involved. The Commander of the Cessna Citation had been performing the duties of PF and both he and the First Officer were experienced on the type being flown. It was concluded that “the reactions of the crews were in accordance with the procedures in force” and that the good weather conditions had allowed the crews of both aircraft to visually observe their reciprocal positions during the incident. The focus of the Investigation therefore turned to the ATC aspects of it. The decision of the Instructor to take over from the Trainee when the A320 was going to pass through the level of the opposite direction light aircraft with what he believed was insufficient separation which could