The conflict was investigated by the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB). The circumstances which led to the conflict were reconstructed using ANSP radar and other recordings. It was noted that the conflict occurred (just) inside Swiss airspace which was part of the Geneva TMA with classification ‘C’. It was also noted that the prevailing in-flight visibility over Lake Geneva where the incident occurred had been very good, facilitating visual acquisition by pilots of other traffic in their vicinity subject to line of sight. It was established that the Geneva Arrival Radar position, which was located alongside the position occupied by the Geneva Approach Coordinator, was being manned by a Trainee. The unused and nearby Final Radar position was occupied by the OJTI responsible for supervising the Trainee. He had taken this position “in order to gain a better view of the arriving traffic, to have a personal radar screen, a microphone and a speaker enabling him to monitor the frequency and to intervene promptly if necessary”. Use of a complete workstation avoided having to monitor the traffic and work over the shoulder of the Trainee and the Instructor was wearing a headset which enabled him to monitor the Trainee's telephone conversations in one ear and the frequency being used in the other. The Cessna Citation was approaching from the north and was in the descent to FL100 and being vectored to join the runway 23 Instrument Landing System (ILS). A single-engined Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) light aircraft was transiting the TMA from the north east to the south west at FL090. The A320 was inbound to Geneva and approaching from the south west in the descent to FL110. The light aircraft was under the control of the Geneva Departure Coordinator, whilst the two inbound aircraft were working Arrival Radar. Shortly after this and in sequence order: the light aircraft was instructed to turn left onto heading 210° so as to follow the south east boundary of the Approach Sector and thus free up 23 ILS centreline.. the Cessna was instructed to turn right onto 260° and descend to FL080. the A320 was instructed to turn right onto 045° to position downwind right for the 23 ILS. This instruction placed the A320, cleared to descend to FL110, on an approximately reciprocal track to the light aircraft maintaining FL090.. the Cessna was instructed to turn right onto 200°, descend to an altitude of 7000 feet and cleared to establish on the ILS.. the A320 was then also instructed to descend to 7000 feet and to do so at a minimum of 2000fpm in order to pass below the light aircraft, which was at this time 16nm away. It was noted that the closing speed of the two aircraft had been 415 knots.. The disposition of the three aircraft at this time can be seen on the diagram below, which also shows the subsequent tracks of all three aircraft in response to later ATC instructions. Just under one minute after the Trainee had