have led to a “potentially dangerous” situation was considered “understandable”. No comment was made on his complete lack of situational awareness in respect of the presence on the ILS of the Cessna, but his actions once he had been made aware of the conflict he had created were considered “quick and adequate”. The main organisational concern was centred on the effects which had followed from the Instructor’s use of the vacant Arrival Radar workstation to supervise - and subsequently take over from - the Trainee given that without an essential reconfiguration (which he had not performed) he was not able to see the activated STCA Alert. It was also noted that it was not possible for the audible STCA Alert to be transmitted to any controllers’ headsets and that the speakers used to broadcast it did not include one at the workstation used being used by the Instructor. This had meant that it was possible for the Instructor to be sufficiently distracted by radio communications which he had been engaged in when the STCA activation occurred not to be aware of it. The formal statement of Cause from the Investigation was that the conflict resulted from “a dangerous convergence between two aircraft in IFR flight, one under radar vectors in the acquisition phase for the runway 23 ILS and the other under radar vectors following the take-over of control (from a trainee) by the (supervising) instructor." It was additionally found that Contributory Factors had been: the use by the trainee of a separation strategy deemed inappropriate by the instructor.. the absence of a control position dedicated to a supervising instructor and displaying parameters identical to those of their trainee.. no STCA alert in the controllers' headsets.. Safety Action taken by ANSP Skyguide in publishing, on 11 June 2012, a Safety Letter reminding their Geneva controllers of “certain limitations of display and STCA Alerts at the FIN (Final Radar) position” was noted. One Safety Recommendation was issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that The Federal Office of Civil Aviation, should call for technical adaptations which would make it possible to have available STCA alerts originating from other control positions. [No 471]. The Final Report was completed on 29 May 2013 and approved by the management of the Swiss AIB on 18 July 2013. The conflict was determined to be a Category ‘A’ AIRPROX in accordance with the applicable ICAO classification.