Clearances are issued solely for expediting and separating air traffic and are based on known traffic conditions which affect safety in aircraft operation. The traffic conditions include: ATC clearances do not constitute authority to violate any applicable regulations for promoting the safety of flight operations or for any other purpose; neither do clearances relieve a pilot-in-command of any responsibility whatsoever in connection with a possible violation of applicable rules and regulations. If an air traffic control clearance is not considered suitable by the pilot-in-command of an aircraft, the flight crew may request and, if practicable, obtain an amended clearance. ATC clearances are issued for controlled flights only, i.e.: A flight is subject to ATC clearance depending on the flight rules and airspace class, i.e.: ATC clearances (except departure and arrival clearances) contain the following items in the order listed: The clearance limit is described by specifying the name of the appropriate significant point, or aerodrome, or controlled airspace boundary. When prior coordination has been effected with units under whose control the aircraft will subsequently come, or if there is reasonable assurance that it can be effected a reasonable time prior to their assumption of control, the clearance limit shall be the destination aerodrome or, if not practicable, an appropriate intermediate point, and coordination shall be expedited so that a clearance to the destination aerodrome may be issued as soon as possible. The route of flight is to be detailed in each clearance when deemed necessary. Subject to airspace constraints, ATC workload and traffic density, and provided coordination can be effected in a timely manner, an aircraft should whenever possible be offered the most direct routing. Instructions included in clearances relating to levels shall consist of: Standard clearances for departing and arriving aircraft are described in a dedicated article. The flight crew shall read back to the air traffic controller safety-related parts of ATC clearances and instructions which are transmitted by voice. The following items shall always be read back: Other clearances or instructions, including conditional clearances, shall be read back or acknowledged in a manner to clearly indicate that they have been understood and will be complied with. The controller shall listen to the readback to ascertain that the clearance or instruction has been correctly acknowledged by the flight crew and shall take immediate action to correct any discrepancies revealed by the readback. Unless specified by the appropriate ATS authority, voice readback of CPDLC messages shall not be required. When issuing a clearance covering a requested change in route or level, the exact nature of the change shall be included in the clearance. When traffic conditions will not permit clearance of a requested change, the word “UNABLE” shall be used. When warranted by circumstances, an alternative route or level should be offered. When an alternative route is offered and accepted by the flight crew, the amended clearance issued shall describe the route to the point where it joins the previously cleared route, or to the destination (if the aircraft will