questions on the use of the MEL in conversion training courses and periodic training courses and to stipulate specific actions by the flight crew. To ensure that the crew’s operating procedure is in compliance with the manufacturer’s recommendations while flying with defects deferred as per the MEL;. To cease the practice of Training Captains of aircraft of Western manufacture with two-man crews without passing through co-pilot training courses and gaining experience on operational flights in this capacity;. To devise a course for the initial training of airline instructors;. To ensure the constant monitoring of the use of the MEL. In the event of the ambiguous interpretation of any provisions, to ask for relevant explanations from the aircraft developer;. When selecting candidates for conversion to new aircraft, to oblige airline psychologists to pay particular attention to any candidates’ personal qualities affecting the processes of emotional reaction and behaviour in non-standard conditions (increased tension and stress), and, when identifying any unfavourable signs, to approach more severely the resolution of any question of their suitability for conversion training;. To develop and implement remedial measures targeted at maintaining a high level of flight safety in conditions of intensified air traffic during familiarization with new aircraft types;. To develop and implement the emergency layout diagram of the A-310 aircraft type for the airport emergency and rescue services;. To exclude a perfunctory approach in debriefing flight crews in relation to the results of analysis of the circumstances of accidents and incidents, as well as any other events that have affected or may affect the level of flight safety;. To issue tickets for all the crew members flying as passengers without adding them to the flight task list;. To correct any other faults that have been revealed in the course of this investigation as well as during the audit conducted by Airbus in April 2006.. To Airbus: Together with the engine developers, to investigate the possibility of having and developing a unified procedure for engaging reverse thrust, irrespective of the engine type or the presence of a deactivated thrust reverser;. To investigate the possibility of changing the algorithm for the activation of the “wrong take-off configuration” warning in order to prevent its activation during any irrelevant stages of a flight or to insert the relevant caution in the FCOM about the possibility of activation of this warning during a landing run, as well as the appropriate crew actions in this situation;. To reword the caution in the TR 02-78 A-310 MMEL chapter in order to remove any incorrect or ambiguous information to ensure precise understanding of the caution.. To EASA and other Certifying Authorities together with the Manufacturers of Large Transport Aircraft To review the human factors issues associated with the dispatch conditions and the operational procedures in case of one thrust reverser being inoperative, in order to avoid inadvertent forward thrust application;. To review the design and maintenance requirements for all FADEC controlled airplanes to ensure that throttle lever breakout forces remain at the acceptable lever