of any obstacles; any visual flight safety equipment; the radio equipment and air traffic control towers; the meteorological equipment; the electrical power supply and equipment; the emergency and rescue equipment; safety control at the airport; air navigation information; equipment and methods of measuring the friction coefficient on a runway.. the physical characteristics of an airport;. the restriction and assessment of any obstacles;. any visual flight safety equipment;. the radio equipment and air traffic control towers;. the meteorological equipment;. the electrical power supply and equipment;. the emergency and rescue equipment;. safety control at the airport;. air navigation information;. equipment and methods of measuring the friction coefficient on a runway.. To examine the question of introducing additional restrictions on residential and other buildings in the vicinity of the airport and its surrounding territory and any structures (gas pipes, fuel distribution points etc) near the runways into the legal standards documentation. To insert amendments in the existing building standards and rules for the purposes of introducing new technical and technological decisions (modern software products) in the planning, construction and acceptance of newly built (or reconstructed) airports;. To implement the Federal Aviation Rules accepted by the Council of States participating in the Agreement on medical flight safety in civil aviation, and to organize the execution of work on the basis of a system of working time and rest periods for civil aviation flight crew and air traffic controllers, as well as the study of death rates among aviation specialists, and the drafting of preventative measures with a view to prolonging the life expectancy of flight personnel;. To regularly carry out an examination of and a check on executing the recommendations of commissions investigating accidents and incidents, and governmental commissions' recommended actions as well;. To resolve top-priority tasks to improve the quality of training aviation specialists, it is necessary: To introduce standards, norms, courses and requirements to regulate the process of training aviation specialists and the level of professional training; To carry out work on drawing up standard training plans to acquire professional training, as well as standard courses for conversion and improving qualifications. Particular attention should be paid to training staff instructors; To carry out work on preparing training courses and the requirements for the use of simulators and technical teaching methods for a detailed draft of the actions to be taken in special flight situations; To incorporate modern methods of training flight crews and air traffic controllers in English into the work of training establishments and airlines; To cease the practice of immediately training candidates from aircraft manned by 3 or more crew members as aircraft Captains (omitting the stage of flying as a co-pilot) for class 1-3 aircraft with a 2-man crew; To increase the minimum level required for conversion training to large types of aircraft and to ensure control thereof by observation as a supervisory service. To ban solving the problem of a shortage of flight crew by means of the oversimplified conversion training of other members of flight crews (navigators,