An Investigation was carried out by the Interstate Aviation Committee. It was found that the aircraft had been despatched on the accident flight with the left engine thrust reverser de-activated as permitted under the Minimum Equipment List (MEL). It was noted that the previous two flights had been carried out with a deactivated right engine thrust reverser. After a touchdown within the touchdown zone (TDZ) following a non precision approach, it was found that the aircraft commander as PF had unintentionally moved the thrust lever for the left engine into the forward thrust range whilst using reverse thrust on the right engine. The reverse thrust of the right engine was reduced to the stowed position and remained there whilst the left engine thrust lever reached a position corresponding to around 60% of its rated takeoff thrust where it remained until the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) stopped recording. It was concluded that the flight crew had not noticed the forward thrust on the left engine. The minimum speed, reached at 20 seconds after touchdown, was found to have been approximately 90 knots. Thereafter, the thrust on the left engine led to acceleration to nearly 100 knots where it remained until the aircraft left the runway. A call by the PF for engine shutdown was made as the aircraft left the runway but was not actioned. The MEL was found to include an explicit warning that “pilots must hold the thrust lever (of an engine with a de-activated thrust reverser) in the idle position during a landing run to prevent any inadvertent movement of the thrust lever in a forward thrust direction”. It was noted that flight crew co-operation had been poor with deficient monitoring by the First Officer who was inexperienced on the aircraft type. The Captain was found to have had no experience as a First Officer on a two crew aircraft type prior to becoming qualified on the A310 It was also noted that although the runway was reported in accordance with prevailing procedures as having ‘good braking action’, it was actually ‘covered with water’ However this fact was not considered to have materially affected the outcome. A range of concerns relating to the evacuation of the aircraft were expressed, both in respect of the ability of the cabin crew to facilitate the evacuation and in respect of the ability of the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services to respond effectively. A total of 57 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: To the Aviation Authorities of Russia: To carry out a comparative analysis of the specificities of operating airplanes of Russian and Western manufacturers;. Until the necessary changes have been made by the developer of the A-310 airplane that are aimed at unifying the procedures for using the engines’ reverse thrust in various situations, to exclude the use (apart from special or emergency situations) of reverse thrust on one engine if the other is deactivated. To take into account this fact when calculating the