section to prolong the effectiveness of the previous rules of selection, as confirmed by the Minister of Civil Aviation in the “Guide to professional, psychological and physiological selection in civil aviation” (1986);. When selecting candidates for conversion to a new aircraft type, to oblige physical evaluation board and airline psychologists to pay particular attention to any candidates’ personal qualities affecting the processes of emotional reaction and behaviour in non-standard conditions (increased tension and stress), and, when identifying any unfavourable signs, to approach more severely the resolution of any question of their suitability for conversion training and/or the need for an individual approach in conversion training;. To ensure the high-quality and thorough investigation of air incidents according to ICAO Annex 13 and the development of specific recommendations on preventing similar occurrences in the future;. To equip at least two devices at Irkutsk airport with modern units for measuring, processing and recording the results of measuring the friction coefficient to replace the visual recording equipment being used. To check the availability and, if need be, to re-equip other airports, a list of which is given in Order no. NA-30-r of the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation dated 24.01.01, with the appropriate measuring equipment;. Together with the scientific research organisations, to develop a method of objective, multiple and quantitative assessment of the state of the runway in accordance with any parameters affecting the take-off and landing characteristics of aircraft of all types, as well as the introduction of the corresponding forms of information of crew members. In order to improve the braking characteristics of civil aircraft on a runway covered in precipitation, to carry out investigations of possibilities to perfect runway surfaces (surface cleaning, corrugation etc);. To develop and implement regulations to exclude the possibility of civil airports accepting any aircraft of a category higher than the level of fire protection of the airport (UTPZ);. To develop and implement changes to the List of Flight Search and Rescue (SPASOP) equipment for airports and regional search and rescue bases (RPSB) in the section dealing with the obligatory provision of special helmets that can be rapidly donned for firefighters and rescue workers equipped with devices for radio communication and the protection of the respiratory organs;. To develop and implement requirements for an increase in at least one UTPZ category of any airports where take-offs and landings are carried out above structures (buildings and erections), with a guaranteed time for the arrival of the first airport fire engine of no longer than two minutes, and a guaranteed range of delivering fire extinguishing compound at medium and high frequency of at least 70 metres;. Together with the scientific research organizations, to conduct investigations and prepare recommendations on extinguishing combined fires on aircraft;. To consider the possibility of developing and providing special clothing for rescue workers when working close to centre of open fire;. To complete the number of departmental search and rescue fire brigades in accordance with the prescribed standards.. To S7 Airlines: To include