and that they are checked on a periodic basis;. To evaluate the usefulness of cabin crew smoke hood devices in assisting the evacuation of airplanes; to evaluate the possibility of equipping large transport airplanes with devices for passengers and/or flight attendants to be used in case of an emergency evacuation without suffering from the effects of smoke and toxic fumes.. To IATA The investigation showed that other events occurred on different types of aircraft, involving inadequate monitoring and erroneous activations of the reverse thrust levers during a landing run in a configuration with one engine reverser deactivated. The Interstate Aviation Committee recommends drawing the attention of operators. to the risks of erroneous movement of the thrust levers in these conditions and their non-detection. To Moscow Domodedovo Airport: To the staff engaged in the registration of passengers, to enter on air tickets the actual weight of hold luggage and hand luggage, and to enter all required details in the registration information;. To require loading and centre-of-gravity supervisors to enter information carefully and in good time and to make corrections to the airplane’s centre-of-gravity diagram and loading chart in accordance with the actual information available;. To require loading agents to strictly comply with the rules for completing carriage documentation, including whenever inserting any corrections in air cargo manifests for the carriage of hazardous cargoes.. To the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO): To examine the question of urgently introducing the video recording of any situation in the cockpit as an ICAO standard at least for aircraft with a maximum take-off weight of more than 27,000 kg.. To the Aviation Authorities of Russia and the Countries participating in the Agreement on Civil Aviation and the Use of Airspace: . Along with flight crews and cabin crews (flight attendants), as well as air traffic controllers and technical engineering staff, to carry out special analyses to study the circumstances of and reasons for an accident;. To draft national (state standard) air rules for the operation and safety of flights in accordance with international standards, using the Air Rules devised within the context of the ICAO-IAC project on Air Rules, as approved by the Council of the states participating in the Agreement and the ICAO Air Navigation Bureau;. To determine the procedure for regulating the operation of aircraft of foreign registration in any states participating in the Agreement and to engage in work on perfecting the existing standard basis. When operating any aircraft of foreign registration in any states participating in the Agreement, to ensure the concluding of agreements in accordance with article 83bis of the Chicago Convention between the state of the operator and the state of registration, including any aircraft of non-commercial organisations registered in a “private” category, for the purposes of a clear division of responsibility for maintaining operational airworthiness;. To amend in the national suitability standards for airports the full list of requirements for flight safety at an airport, including the requirements for: the physical characteristics of an airport; the restriction and assessment