necessary take-off and landing distances;. In accordance with article 33 of the Air Code of the Russian Federation and article 83bis of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, to accomplish the mandatory conclusion of Agreements on continued airworthiness when allowing airlines of the Russian Federation to operate aircraft of foreign registration. To complete work on the said Agreement with the aviation authorities of France as regards the A-310 airplane being operated by Sibir;. When allowing airlines of the Russian Federation to operate aircraft, including aircraft of foreign registration, to ensure that a check is made on their compliance with the standard construction on which the Certificate has been issued. To exclude permission to operate any aircraft that do not meet this requirement;. To examine the question of unifying training and conversion training courses for flight crew on each type of aircraft and to put them into effect as a single basic document for all airlines operating similar airplanes, with the aim of raising the standards of training personnel and excluding any occurrences of oversimplification in this task;. To examine the questions on creating unified training courses for flight attendants on each type of aircraft, stipulating therein the optimisation of a precise series of actions by members of the cabin crew and their use of protective, emergency and rescue equipment when carrying out an emergency evacuation of passengers in various conditions (fire, smoke etc);. To develop and implement a universal course for improving the qualifications of flight crew specializing in crew resources management (CRM) on airplanes with two-man crews. To ensure that crews undertake it obligatorily at conversion from aircraft with three or more crew members. To cease the practice of immediately having the Captain of an aircraft with a crew of three or more members conversion to captain of an aircraft with a two-man crew without gaining any experience of operational flights as a co-pilot of an aircraft with a two-man crew;. To amend the procedure of confirming the airlines’ MEL, excluding the possibility of confirming any “softer” variations than the developer’s MASTER MEL;. To cease the practice of granting permits to carry out flights with a prolonged period for correcting faults without a detailed analysis of each specific occurrence;. Together with the Federal customs service, to examine the question of accelerating the customs formalities for importing spare parts for aircraft of foreign manufacture;. To carry out a one-time check of all aircraft for the actual availability of emergency and rescue equipment provided by type design, as well as for the availability of layout diagrams of the external emergency and rescue markings;. To develop and incorporate the new edition of the section on the psychological and physiological selection of candidates for conversion to new aircraft and promotion to the aircraft Captain position into the “Guide to ensuring the psychological selection, training and professional activity of civil aviation flight crew and air traffic control staff in the Russian Federation” 2001 edition. During the period of developing the new edition of the