air engineers).. To introduce standards, norms, courses and requirements to regulate the process of training aviation specialists and the level of professional training;. To carry out work on drawing up standard training plans to acquire professional training, as well as standard courses for conversion and improving qualifications. Particular attention should be paid to training staff instructors;. To carry out work on preparing training courses and the requirements for the use of simulators and technical teaching methods for a detailed draft of the actions to be taken in special flight situations;. To incorporate modern methods of training flight crews and air traffic controllers in English into the work of training establishments and airlines;. To cease the practice of immediately training candidates from aircraft manned by 3 or more crew members as aircraft Captains (omitting the stage of flying as a co-pilot) for class 1-3 aircraft with a 2-man crew;. To increase the minimum level required for conversion training to large types of aircraft and to ensure control thereof by observation as a supervisory service. To ban solving the problem of a shortage of flight crew by means of the oversimplified conversion training of other members of flight crews (navigators, air engineers).. To introduce modern information systems on incidents, accidents, breakdowns and faults in aviation equipment in use, for the purposes of taking corrective actions in good time to ensure flight safety;. To legally determine the position on the compulsory insurance covering the liability of the carrier/owner of an aircraft towards passengers and third parties, establishing the unified level of liability for domestic and international air transportation laid down by the 1929 Warsaw Convention and the Hague Protocol. To take steps to ratify the 1999 Montreal Convention;. To introduce the requirement for compliance with international (IOSA) quality standards for all operators by no later than 1 January 2008;. To ensure checks are made on the serviceability and proper maintenance of emergency and rescue equipment on all civil aviation aircraft.. To examine the question of organising joint work on maintaining the airworthiness of aircraft of foreign registration taking into account the need to build up a database and analyse the reliability of the whole fleet and, in conjunction with the manufacturer, to process any recommendations for improving reliability and the level of flight safety;. To introduce the regular practice of holding technical flying conferences on generalizing the experience of operating aircraft of foreign registration and drafting proposals for their perfection.. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued in 2007 and an English translation made available by the French BEA.