There are multiple factors that can cause an aircraft to inappropriately use a runway or a taxiway. The most significant of these factors are: Environmental factors have a significant effect on the risk of inappropriate use of a runway or taxiway. These include the following: Rain/fog/snow: These can reduce the visibility making it more difficult to see signage, surface lighting, and surface markings from the cockpit, thus making it more difficult to determine the correct airport surface to be used.. Night: In nighttime conditions, the visibility is restricted to only taxiway/runway lighting and the limited area that the aircraft lights can illuminate.. There are several human factors issues that can have a significant effect on the risk of inappropriate use of a runway or taxiway. These include: Distraction: This can cause an increase in the risk of using an inappropriate airport surface. Distraction can come in many forms: Communication with the tower or ATC while trying to determine the correct airport surface to use Late completion of a required checklist Any issue in the cockpit that requires the crew’s attention (e.g. a warning light). Communication with the tower or ATC while trying to determine the correct airport surface to use. Late completion of a required checklist. Any issue in the cockpit that requires the crew’s attention (e.g. a warning light). Situational Awareness A detailed crew briefing of the airport layout, to include the active runway and all relevant taxiways, can reduce the risk of using an inappropriate airport surface. A crew awareness of the location of specific items on the airport (e.g PAPI) will assist in determining the correct surface to utilise Risk can be reduced while on the ground by utilizing a moving map display, if available Risk can be reduced by the use of airport surface awareness technology to assist the crew (e.g. Runway Awareness and Alerting System (RAAS)). A detailed crew briefing of the airport layout, to include the active runway and all relevant taxiways, can reduce the risk of using an inappropriate airport surface.. A crew awareness of the location of specific items on the airport (e.g PAPI) will assist in determining the correct surface to utilise. Risk can be reduced while on the ground by utilizing a moving map display, if available. Risk can be reduced by the use of airport surface awareness technology to assist the crew (e.g. Runway Awareness and Alerting System (RAAS)). Fatigue: Any level of fatigue will make the individual/crew less alert and increase the risk of utilizing an incorrect airport surface. Monitoring: Many of the accidents and incidents that deal with the inappropriate use of a runway or taxiway display a lack of monitoring by the pilot monitoring. In many cases this is due to one of the factors already listed such as distraction or fatigue, and in some cases it is due to a lack of training in or execution of the monitoring function.. Aircraft and airport factors play a large role in determining the risk of inappropriate use