of a runway or taxiway. Lighting Aircraft taxi lights ineffective or not used: This restricts the visual picture available to the aircrew and may influence the aircrew’s ability to determine the correct airport surface to be used Runway centerline lights: These assist the crew in determining the correct airport surface to utilise Taxiway lead in lights that go all the way to the runway centerline help reduce risk Non-standard lights or light pattern on the airport surface can increase the risk of using an inappropriate airport surface. Aircraft taxi lights ineffective or not used: This restricts the visual picture available to the aircrew and may influence the aircrew’s ability to determine the correct airport surface to be used. Runway centerline lights: These assist the crew in determining the correct airport surface to utilise. Taxiway lead in lights that go all the way to the runway centerline help reduce risk. Non-standard lights or light pattern on the airport surface can increase the risk of using an inappropriate airport surface. Airport surface environment Current and well maintained airport signage is a significant risk reduction factor Multiple parallel taxiways and runways may increase the risk of using an inappropriate airport surface Extra paved surface area can make it more difficult for the crew to determine the correct airport surface to use Displaced threshold or intersection takeoffs and landings remove many of the normal visual references used to determine the correct airport surface to utilize and increase the risk of the inappropriate use of a runway for taxiway Takeoff/landing area conspicuity (e.g. runway numbers, “piano keys”): These greatly assist the aircrew in determining/confirming the correct airport surface to use Runway conspicuity, both lighting and painted/marked areas. Current and well maintained airport signage is a significant risk reduction factor. Multiple parallel taxiways and runways may increase the risk of using an inappropriate airport surface. Extra paved surface area can make it more difficult for the crew to determine the correct airport surface to use. Displaced threshold or intersection takeoffs and landings remove many of the normal visual references used to determine the correct airport surface to utilize and increase the risk of the inappropriate use of a runway for taxiway. Takeoff/landing area conspicuity (e.g. runway numbers, “piano keys”): These greatly assist the aircrew in determining/confirming the correct airport surface to use. Runway conspicuity, both lighting and painted/marked areas.