An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Relevant data were obtained from the FDR and CVR and from the two pilots involved. Available FDR parameters included the engagement status of the AP and of the available FD modes but since FDR data were only available once the anti collision beacons were selected on prior to engine start, it was not possible to confirm the crew's account of pre-start FD mode selection. It was noted that the 60 year-old Captain, who was PF for the investigated flight, had accumulated a total of 14,122 flying hours which included 464 hours on type. No information was provided about the First Officer's experience. It was found that prior to engine start, the initially prepared load sheet had to be replaced and that although the First Officer had programmed the FMS whilst the Captain had been conducting the external pre-flight check, the latter stated that upon his return and prior to receiving the departure clearance had, "in order to save time before pushback" set the FD modes to 'GA', 'HDG', and 'ALT SEL' whilst leaving the selected altitude as zero pending the departure clearance in accordance with company operating procedures. When an initial climb to 3000 feet was included in the subsequently-issued departure clearance, the Captain selected this on the PFDs but neither pilot noticed that the AP modes set were 'HDG' and Altitude Hold ('ALT'), the latter in place of the intended ‘ALT SEL’, or that the FD vertical command bar had (as a consequence) moved from the nose-up ‘GA’ position to neutral. A 'Delayed Engine Start' (DES) was briefed but where this was to occur was not discussed. On reaching the runway for departure, 22, the flight was cleared to enter and backtrack and soon after entering, the First Officer started the second engine. As the aircraft approached the end of its backtrack and a 180º right turn was about to commence, the Captain was recorded as confirming the takeoff clearance as "3000 with ALT SEL" before subsequently noticing that in fact 'ALT' was still set rather than 'ALT SEL' as the First Officer corrected it. Having just completed the taxi checks, the Line up checks were carried out as the aircraft made the turn. The final item on this checklist was to check the Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA) Panel and the CWP in response to which the Captain was recorded as saying "Go-around, Heading and Alt Sel" whereas the FDR data subsequently examined showed that actually 'ALT', 'HDG' and 'ALT SEL' had been selected. After takeoff, the aircraft was controlled manually with 'LNAV' FD mode selected and pitch, initially about 15º nose up was reduced to approximately 10º nose up. At about 1,350 feet agl and at 163 KCAS and by now in IMC, the AP was engaged. Having reached 1,500 feet agl, the aircraft began to pitch nose down at about 1.2º/second. During the next 15 seconds, without the crew - who were completing the 'After Takeoff' Checklist -