noticing, the rate of descent continued to increase and the pitch attitude went from about 10ยบ nose up to 8ยบ nose down. At about 1,300 feet and with airspeed rapidly approaching the 245 KIAS Vmo which applied below 8,000 feet, an EGPWS Mode 3 'DON'T SINK' Alert was annunciated. The AP was disconnected, power was reduced and a nose-up pitch input was made. An EGPWS 'PULL UP' Warning quickly followed and by the time the descent had been arrested, the aircraft had reached 928 feet agl and a speed of 241 KCAS. A climb was re-established and at about 1,900 feet, the Captain re-engaged the AP but this time, having observed the pitch down begin again, he immediately disconnected it and selected the 'IAS' FD mode at 210 KIAS which action automatically deselected the 'ALT' mode. The crew reported that they had "become visual with the ground" as they recovered the aircraft from the descent. Soon after the aircraft reached the cleared altitude of 3,000 feet, ATC queried the excursion they had observed and were told by the First Officer that there had been a problem with the AP but that it had been resolved. There was no further in-flight discussion by the crew about the excursion until after landing, when it was apparent that neither of them understood why engagement of the AP when climbing had caused the aircraft to begin descending. It was noted that if 'ALT' mode is activated manually, then the FD target altitude becomes the current altitude and that if 'ALT SEL' is selected when 'ALT' mode is already active, this action does not change the target altitude. It was apparent that at no point had the crew recognised that their pre-take off selection of FD modes had unintentionally not been the Company Standard combination of 'GA', 'HDG' and 'ALT SEL'. It was also apparent that the abnormal position of the FD command bars, which at no time had shown the climb command which would normally always be present on takeoff, had been noticed. The Investigation noted that the Operator had been aware of three previous similar cases of incorrect setting of FD modes on its DHC8-400 aircraft in 2017, two of which resulted in unexpected - but quickly noticed - descents after takeoff when the AP was engaged and one where the incorrect setting was noticed prior to engaging the AP. However awareness of these occurrences was not derived from the Company's OFDM system as this did not have a suitably configured event to detect incorrectly configured FD modes at takeoff. The formally stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: Prior to pushback, the crew had selected the FD modes without entering a target altitude. This caused one mode to default to alt instead of 'ALT SEL', which was not detected by the crew.. Due to the DES being carried out whilst backtracking the runway, there was reduced time available in which to complete all required checks which, when combined with a sense