control and throttle but that it had “begun to backfire and shake violently with variations in the Brake Mean Effective Pressure (BMEP), fuel pressure, fuel flow indications, rpm and manifold pressure”. The crew had then run the engine failure emergency checklist which included feathering the right propeller and selecting the mixture control to cutoff. The First Officer stated that “shortly afterwards” the left engine began to behave similarly and whilst the Captain unsuccessfully tried to control the engine, he had, as instructed by the Captain, declared an emergency. Following the Captain’s attempts to manoeuvre the aircraft for ditching, it had hit the water "violently" causing the First Officer to strike his head on the instrument panel. He stated that having released his harness, he saw the Captain “slumped over in his seat and unresponsive”. He had tried to lift him out of his seat but was unable to do so and with the water level in the flight deck chest high, he realised that he needed to get out of the aircraft himself. He reported that after kicking open the flight deck door, he could see that “the tail had separated from the empennage (and) had grabbed the life raft and exited from the tail of the airplane". He was subsequently rescued by a Coast Guard helicopter. It was established that the accident aircraft was 64 years old and the airframe total time was 12,701 hours at the time of the accident. It was powered by two Pratt & Whitney R-2800CB3 radial engines and two Hamilton Sunstrand 43E60-377 propellers that were being maintained under an FAA-approved aircraft inspection programme. The most recent inspection under this regime was found to have been on the day before the accident at which time the left engine was at 1,943 hours and the right engine was at “about” 417 hours. Given the decision not to attempt to locate and recover the wreckage, it was not possible to determine the cause of the malfunctioning engines. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was "the Captain's decision to continue with the flight with a malfunctioning left engine propeller control and the subsequent loss of engine power on both engines for undetermined reasons, which resulted in ditching into the ocean”. A Contributory Factor to the accident was also identified as "the First Officer's failure to challenge the Captain's decision to continue with the flight”. The Final Report was administratively ‘published’ 8 April 2020 and subsequently open-access published on 20 April 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.