An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The accident aircraft was operating under an FAA Part 135 AOC and configured for freight operations. It was noted that the 68 year-old Captain had recorded a total of 23,000 hours total experience which included 725 hours on type. He had previously held type ratings on the Boeing 727 and Boeing 737 and had recorded 21,000 of his total 23,000 hours as in command. The 28 year-old First Officer had a total of 650 hours flying experience which included 305 hours on type, all of the latter obtained on the accident aircraft. It was established that the aircraft had been on an out-and-back trip from Miami Opa Locka to Nassau. According to the First Officer, the pre-flight inspection, engine start, taxi, and engine run-up prior to the outbound flight were normal and about 900 gallons of fuel was on board. He stated that the flight itself, during which he had been PM, had been normal until he attempted to adjust the left engine propeller control to match the cruise speed when there was no indicated change and 2,400 rpm remained. After he had unsuccessfully tried to reset the left propeller control CB, the Captain had been able to stabilise power on both engines and the rest of the flight was without further event. On arrival, the Captain asked the First Officer to send a text message to Company Maintenance Control, but when the message did not transmit the Captain had told him “not to worry and indicated that, if they were unable to reset the propeller control on the ground during the engine run-up, then they would shut down the airplane and call maintenance”. As they prepared for the departure from Nassau, the First Officer stated that engine start had been normal, both propellers had been cycled and it had been possible to reset the left engine propeller control, so the flight had departed with the First Officer as PF. Initially, all had been normal, but climbing through 4,000 feet, “the left engine propeller control had stopped working, and the power was again stuck at 2,400 rpm”. After trying to adjust the propeller control and inadvertently increasing the setting to 2,700 rpm, the Captain had taken over as PF and again “stabilised the power on both engines”. He had then levelled the aircraft at 4,500 feet, cancelled the IFR flight plan and announced his intention to fly VFR direct to Miami (which was about 160 nm to the west northwest of Nassau) despite the First Officer suggesting that they turn back to Nassau. The First Officer said that he had not wanted to further challenge the Captain's decision to continue the flight given his much greater experience. The flight continued without further event until the beginning of the descent into Miami when “the right engine began to surge and lose power”. The Captain had responded by selecting both fuel boost pumps on and attempting to stabilise the malfunctioning engine using the mixture