An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. During the first four months of the work, two Interim Reports and one Special Bulletin were published to highlight critical airworthiness matters and present corresponding Safety Recommendations which prompted Manufacturer and Regulatory safety action. The helicopter was equipped with a Combined Voice and Flight Data Recorder (CVFDR) which was recovered and successfully replayed. Non Volatile Memory (NVM) Data from the Health and Usage Monitoring System (HUMS) data card containing information from the operations conducted on the day of the accident was also recovered. This information was then merged with the rest of the operator’s ground station maintenance database to form a complete record. NVM data was also recovered from the Digital Engine Control Units (DECU), the Flight Deck EFIS Displays, the Digital Flight Data Acquisition Unit (DFDAU) and the Helicopter Operations Monitoring Programme (HOMP) data card (HOMP is the helicopter equivalent of fixed wing OFDM). It was established that 12 seconds after the First Officer had made a routine transmission, a MAYDAY call was made from the helicopter. With the benefit of a credible eyewitness report from a ship approximately two nm from the accident site in the prevailing good visibility, it was apparent that that the hub with the main rotor blades attached had separated from the helicopter at altitude since they could be seen descending to the sea surface separately. The analysis of all the evidence showed that there had been a catastrophic failure of the helicopter Main Rotor Gearbox (MGB) with the loss of all its oil pressure just 2.5 seconds after the end of the First Officer’s routine radio transmission. Twenty seconds after that, the main rotor and part of the epicyclic module attached to it had separated from the fuselage and the main rotor blades had struck the tail boom in several places severing it from the fuselage. The subsequent impact of the fuselage with the surface of the sea had occurred at a high vertical speed and had been non-survivable. The Investigation found that the failure of the MGB had been initiated in one of the eight second stage planet gears in the epicyclic reduction module of the gearbox. One of these planet gears had fractured as a result of a fatigue crack for which a precise origin could not be determined. However, analysis did suggest that the crack was likely to have been in the loaded area of the planet gear bearing outer race. The Investigation noted that reduction of the 23000 rpm output from the turboshaft engines to the 265 rpm main rotor blade speed takes place in the MGB in two stages. The lower section of the MGB, referred to as the ‘main module’, reduces the input shaft speed to around 2,400 rpm and the epicyclic reduction module, located on top of the main module, then reduces this output to around 265 rpm. It was found that there was one aspect of maintenance history which was relevant to the eventual failure sequence: