“A metallic particle had been discovered on the epicyclic chip detector during maintenance on 25 March 2009, some 36 flying hours prior to the accident. This was the only indication of the impending failure of the second stage planet gear” In respect of this particle, it was noted that the possibility of a material defect in the planet gear or damage due to the presence of foreign object debris could not be discounted. It was also noted that this particle had been released from a position near the edge of the outer race of the failed gear which had not been recovered. Other findings included that: when the Continued Airworthiness programme for the AS332 L2 was initiated, it was determined that damage to planet gear outer races would not adversely affect the continued airworthiness of the helicopter. the design of the second stage planet gear met the requirements applicable at the time of certification.. The Investigation formally identified the Causal Factor as “the catastrophic failure of the Main Rotor Gearbox was a result of a fatigue fracture of a second stage planet gear in the epicyclic module”. In addition, the Investigation formally identified the following Contributory Factors: The actions taken following the discovery of a magnetic particle on the epicyclic module chip detector on 25 March 2009, 36 flying hours prior to the accident, resulted in the particle not being recognised as an indication of degradation of the second stage planet gear, which subsequently failed.. After 25 March 2009, the existing detection methods did not provide any further indication of the degradation of the second stage planet gear.. The ring of magnets installed on the AS332 L2 and EC225 main rotor gearboxes reduced the probability of detecting released debris from the epicyclic module.. The following six initial Safety Recommendations were made during the course of this Investigation. That Eurocopter issue an Alert Service Bulletin to require all operators of AS332 L2 helicopters to implement a regime of additional inspections and enhanced monitoring to ensure the continued airworthiness of the main rotor gearbox epicyclic module. (2009-048). That the European Aviation Safety Agency (European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA)) evaluate the efficacy of the Eurocopter programme of additional inspections and enhanced monitoring and, when satisfied, make the Eurocopter Alert Service Bulletin mandatory by issuing an Airworthiness Directive with immediate effect. (2009-049). That Eurocopter improve the gearbox monitoring and warning systems on the AS332 L2 helicopter so as to identify degradation and provide adequate alerts. (2009-050). That Eurocopter, with the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), develop and implement an inspection of the internal components of the main rotor gearbox epicyclic module for all AS332 L2 and EC225LP helicopters as a matter of urgency to ensure the continued airworthiness of the main rotor gearbox. This inspection is in addition to that specified in EASA Emergency Airworthiness Directive 2009-0087-E, and should be made mandatory with immediate effect by an additional EASA Emergency Airworthiness Directive. (2009-051). That the European Aviation Safety Agency, in conjunction with Eurocopter, review