The overall structure of the Investigation followed the Reason Model of accident causation and so the Conclusions were presented in those terms and are quoted below verbatim. (1) Significant Active Failures A number of active failures that had a significant influence on the development of the accident were identified: The flight crew did not use an adequate risk management strategy for the approach and landing.. The first officer did not fly the aircraft accurately during final approach.. The captain cancelled the go-around decision by retarding the thrust levers.. The flight crew did not select (or notice the absence of) idle reverse thrust.. The flight crew did not select (or notice the absence of) full reverse thrust.. The flight crew did not consider all relevant issues when deciding not to conduct an immediate evacuation.. Some crew members did not communicate important information during the emergency period.. Other significant active failures found were: The runway surface was affected by water.. The cabin interphone and passenger address system became inoperable.. (2) Significant Latent Failures - Qantas Flight Operations" Company-published information, procedures, and flight crew training for landing on water-affected runways were deficient.. Flight crew training in evaluating the procedural and configuration options for approach and landing was deficient.. Procedures and training for flight crew in evaluating whether or not to conduct an emergency evacuation were deficient.. Procedures and training for cabin crew in identifying and communicating relevant information during an emergency were deficient.. The processes for identifying hazards were primarily reactive and informal, rather than proactive and systematic.. The processes to assess the risks associated with identified hazards were deficient.. The processes to manage the development, introduction and evaluation of changes to operations were deficient.. The design of operational procedures and training were over-reliant on the decision making ability of Company flight crew and cabin crew and did not place adequate emphasis on structured processes.. Management culture was over-reliant on personal experience and did not place adequate emphasis on structured processes, available expertise, management training and research and development when making strategic decisions.. Significant Latent Failures - CASA (the Australian National Aviation Authority (NAA)): The regulations covering contaminated runway operations were deficient.. The regulations covering emergency procedures and emergency procedures training were deficient.. The surveillance of airline flight operations was deficient.. Other Significant Latent failures: The redundancy provided by the normal and alternate cabin interphone and public address systems in B747-400 aircraft was significantly reduced because components for both systems were co-located in the same relatively damage-prone position in the lower fuselage aft of the nose wheel.. Five Safety Recommendations were made where important safety matters had not been (or were not being) addressed at the conclusion of the Investigation. These were: Safety Recommendation R20000239. That CASA ensures that all Australian operators of high capacity jet aircraft have in place procedures and training to ensure flight crews are adequately equipped for operations on wet/contaminated runways. Safety Recommendation R20000235. That CASA review the intent of CAO 48 to ensure that operators consider all duties