associated with a pilot’s employment (including managerial and administrative duties) when designing flight and duty time schedules, and that this requirement is not restricted to situations where there are one or two pilots. Safety Recommendation R20000231. That the FAA and JAA review the design requirements for high capacity aircraft to ensure the integrity of the cabin interphone and passenger address systems, particularly with respect to cabin/flight deck communications, in the event of runway overruns and other relatively common types of events which result in landing gear and lower fuselage damage. Safety Recommendation R20000234 That CASA should consider including the following issues as requirements of operators during its current development of new legislation in the area of emergency procedures training: How flight crew should gather and evaluate relevant information and make a decision regarding which type of emergency response is most suitable. How cabin crew should communicate with each other and the flight deck in emergency situations (in terms of technique, terminology, and methods to ensure that accurate information reaches the flight deck). How cabin crew should communicate during an emergency on the ground when there is a loss of PA and interphone communications. How cabin crew should systematically and regularly identify problematic situations in an aircraft during an emergency (including guidelines on what types of information are most important and ensuring that all areas of the aircraft are examined). Leadership and coordination functions of cabin crew supervisors during an emergency situation. For example, how the supervisors should assess the situation (particularly in circumstances that had not been clearly defined), assign roles and responsibilities amongst the cabin crew, coordinate the gathering of information, and coordinate the distribution of information. How cabin crew should effectively obtain information from passengers concerning safety-related issues. How cabin crew should effectively use language and assertiveness for crowd control and managing passenger movement towards exits during emergency situations, as well as passenger control outside the aircraft. That cabin crew supervisors are provided with appropriate resources to ensure that they can effectively communicate with other areas of the cabin during emergency situations (e.g. providing the supervisor with ready access to an ‘assist’ crewmember at their assigned location).. How flight crew should gather and evaluate relevant information and make a decision regarding which type of emergency response is most suitable.. How cabin crew should communicate with each other and the flight deck in emergency situations (in terms of technique, terminology, and methods to ensure that accurate information reaches the flight deck).. How cabin crew should communicate during an emergency on the ground when there is a loss of PA and interphone communications.. How cabin crew should systematically and regularly identify problematic situations in an aircraft during an emergency (including guidelines on what types of information are most important and ensuring that all areas of the aircraft are examined).. Leadership and coordination functions of cabin crew supervisors during an emergency situation. For example, how the supervisors should assess the situation (particularly in circumstances that had not been clearly defined), assign