stopping the aircraft in the runway distance remaining after touchdown. The aircraft overran the 100 metre stopway (at the end of the runway) at a speed of 88 knots, before stopping 220 metres later with the nose resting on an airport perimeter road. The depth of water on the runway when the aircraft landed could not be determined but it was sufficient to allow dynamic aquaplaning to occur (i.e. at least 3 mm). The water buildup was the result of heavy rain on the runway in the preceding minutes, and possibly because the runway was both un-grooved and without a porous friction course. The Investigation concluded that although there were no definite measurements available, there had been sufficient rainfall just prior to the landing to have caused the runway surface water depth to have exceeded 3 mm. It was considered likely that the distribution of water on the runway had changed during the six minute period between the previous landing aircraft and the accident aircraft with actual braking action likely to have been close to ‘poor’. During the examination of the performance of the aircraft on the runway, it became evident that the Flaps 25 / Idle Reverse Thrust landing procedure used (and which was the ‘preferred’ company procedure) had not been appropriate for operations on to water-affected runways. The more appropriate approach/landing procedure would have been Flaps 30 / Full Reverse Thrust, which would have involved a lower approach speed, probably been easier to fly in terms of speed control and the runway aim point and provided maximum aerodynamic drag after touchdown when the effectiveness of the wheel brakes could be reduced because of aquaplaning. The Investigation concluded that had this configuration been used, the overrun would most probably have been avoided. The Investigation also considered that, as with other Company B747-400 pilots, the accident flight crew had “not been provided with appropriate procedures and training to properly evaluate the potential effect the Bangkok Airport weather conditions might have had on the stopping performance of the aircraft. In particular, they were not sufficiently aware of the potential for aquaplaning and of the importance of reverse thrust as a stopping force on water-affected runways.”