The Aircraft Accident Investigation Committee of Thailand would normally have investigated the event but on 18 November, this Committee delegated the investigation to the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). The ATSB Investigation established that the approach had been flown with the First Officer as PF and with flaps 25 selected and that the flight crew had intended to select idle reverse thrust after touchdown. It was noted that an on-duty Second Officer had been occupying the principal supernumerary seat in the flight deck and that the aircraft commander was a management pilot with relatively little experience on the aircraft type compared to both the other pilots. The crew elected to use flaps 25 and idle reverse as the configuration for the approach and landing, in accordance with normal company practice. At various stages during the approach to runway 21L, the crew were informed by ATC that there was a thunderstorm and heavy rain at the airport, and that visibility was 4 km or greater. The crew was not made aware of the fact that another Company aircraft had gone around from the same final approach at about 250 feet agl a few minutes earlier but were told shortly before landing that the runway was wet and that the last landing aircraft (which had preceded the Company go around) had reported that braking action was ‘good’. The flight crew noted no effect from the weather until visibility reduced when the aircraft entered very heavy rain as it descended through 200 ft on late final approach. The aircraft had then started to deviate above the ILS GS, passing over the runway threshold at 169 knots and a height of 76 feet. Those parameters were within company limits. (The applicable target speed for the final approach was 154 knots and the ideal threshold crossing height was 44 feet.). When the aircraft had been approximately 10 feet above the runway, the Captain instructed the First Officer to go around, but when the main gear touched the runway as the First Officer was advancing the engine thrust levers, the Captain immediately cancelled the go-around by retarding the thrust levers without announcing his actions. Those events were concluded to have resulted in confusion amongst the other pilots and contributed to the crew not selecting (or noticing the absence of) reverse thrust during the landing roll. In addition, the actual touchdown point was found to have been 1002 metres along the 3,150 metre runway, 636 m beyond the ideal point. Due to a variety of factors associated with the cancellation of the go-around, the aircraft’s speed did not begin to decrease below the actual touchdown speed until the aircraft was over halfway down the runway. The investigation established that, during the landing roll, the aircraft tyres had aquaplaned on the water-affected runway such that the effectiveness of the wheel brakes was limited to about one third of that on an equivalent dry runway. In such conditions and without reverse thrust, there was no prospect of the crew