An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT). Data from both the FDR and CVR were successfully downloaded and used to support the Investigation. The 39 year-old Captain was found to have 4813 hours total flying experience including 1531 on type. Total flying experience for the First Officer was "not available" but he had 1088 hours flying experience on type. It was noted that pilot type conversion training had occurred in Xi'an (Captain) and Jakarta (First Officer) and in both cases had been conducted by instructors from the Aircraft Manufacturer aided by translators. It was established that the Captain had been PF and that a Company Engineer had been travelling on the flight. In the climb passing 4000 feet, a Left DC GEN caution was annunciated but ceased following a reset. Passing 6000 feet, a transient engine fire warning occurred and three seconds later reoccurred and continued. The Investigation concluded from the CVR recording that "there was a confusion of both pilots to analyze the situation". After an initial discussion, the cabin crew was asked to get the Company engineer to come to the flight deck which he did and confirmed that a left engine fire was visible from the passenger cabin. Two minutes after the Fire Warning had occurred, both pilots "agreed" to shut down the engine. The PM then feathered the propeller and the PF decided to return to Bima. The PM then activated the first engine fire extinguisher shot prior to, 25 seconds later, shutting the left engine down. The Before Landing Checklist followed by the Engine Failure Checklist were then read. Between 4 and 5 minutes after the Fire Warning had begun the second extinguisher shot was activated but the fire warning remained active. The return to Bima was completed by a landing with the ARFF in attendance on the request of TWR after 22 minutes airborne. No explicit declaration of an emergency was made to ATC. It was determined that a fuel leak had caused the fire. Inspection showed that the fire had begun in "the lower part of the cowling in front of the partition between hot and cold section of the engine" where the leaked fuel had accumulated and that the fire had then "moved upward crossing the frame bulkhead to the hot section". It was established from examination of FDR data from several previous flights that the same left engine fuel leak had been occurring and that on each occasion, the leak rate had been related to fuel flow, being at its maximum during take off and had then "reduced gradually during the climb stage and even ceased during the cruise". There was also evidence that there had been a gradual progressive increase in the leak which, it was considered, indicated that it was a leak which would typically be caused by mechanical loosening. The source of the leak was confirmed as being an "improperly tightened" fuel line fitting beneath