the fuel flow transmitter for which the associated locking wire was still in place. This fitting was found to have originally been installed by the aircraft manufacturer. The Investigation noted the failure of the crew to promptly execute the memory response to the fire warning and when it was carried out, the complete failure to follow the sequence prescribed in the QRH and the FCOM. The most significant effect of the latter was that the initial discharge of engine fire extinguisher was prior to engine shutdown and would therefore have been completely ineffective. It was also concluded that CRM had been poor and that "the coordination between the pilots during the emergency phase did not show the check - recheck philosophy" being followed. This latter was found to be partially in accordance with wording in the QRH which stated: For checklist which contains memory items or memory and reference items combined together, PM should firstly verify each memory item has been completed, during verification, usually PM should read these checklist loudly, but PF does not need to respond except for items that are not in agreement with the checklist. But during verify the abnormal checklist about landing, PF must verify and answer checklist items. The Investigation formally identified two Contributory Factors in respect of the occurrence as follows: The fire on the left engine was due to fuel leak on the fuel line fitting which was improperly tightened.. The delay (in) pilot action had prolonged exposure to the risk (of) fire and jeopardised the safety of the flight.. Safety Action taken as a result of the occurrence was noted as including the following: Merpati Nusantara Airlines performed a one-time MA60 Fleet Inspection to check for any fuel leak from the PW127J engines or from the fuel flow transmitters.. Xi'an Aircraft Industry issued Service Bulletins requiring Operators to: check the installation and connection of fuel and oil lines in the engine nacelle of all MA60 aircraft to eliminate the risk of loose connections caused by installation or environment and then check that the torque of all pipe connectors is as specified and no fuel leakage is found. perform a check of the required torque during the replacement of any engine fuel flow meter.. check the installation and connection of fuel and oil lines in the engine nacelle of all MA60 aircraft to eliminate the risk of loose connections caused by installation or environment and then check that the torque of all pipe connectors is as specified and no fuel leakage is found.. perform a check of the required torque during the replacement of any engine fuel flow meter.. A total of 4 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Merpati Nusantara Airlines should review the pilot training syllabus to ensure the standard (of) qualification.. that Merpati Nusantara Airlines should emphasise Crew Resource Management (CRM) training to improve communication, role play and commandership.. that the Xi’an Aircraft Manufacturer to review operational procedures to include check and