by Gulfstream of a new pilot response drill for "Uncommanded nose wheel steering" in 2004. This required pilots facing this situation to: use the rudder and differential braking to control and correct the flight path;. set the PWR STEER switch to OFF in order to disable the steering system.. The new procedure was found to have been notified in a letter to all G-IV operators advising that "control problems of the steering system may arise during landing and be undetectable or undetected until they have occurred" . The procedure had been subsequently incorporated in both the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) and AOM but not also added to the rest of the manufacturer's operational documentation, specifically the manufacturer's Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) (which should always include all abnormal procedures published in the AFM), the 'Cockpit Reference Handbook' and the 'Initial Pilot Training Manual'. It was found that the notification letter had not been sent to all relevant training organisations and specifically not to the contracted pilot training organisation used by the Operator, CAE Simuflite. The Operator stated to the Investigation that they were "not aware of this letter" and the drill was not available to or likely to have been otherwise known to the pilots, who had understandably not immediately set the PWR STEER switch to OFF when the unexpected deviation to the left began. It was also noted that the fact that the new drill "could not be fully carried out from the right seat had not been identified by the FAA, Gulfstream or training organizations". The Investigation considered that the accident illustrated the importance of ground spoiler deployment on touchdown and noted that whilst the unintended failure to arm them in this case could be linked to failure to complete the ‘‘Before Landing’’ Checklist, there was no indication to the crew of spoiler position or any normal procedure for the PM to confirm actual activation of the spoilers once the aircraft was on the ground. It was also noted that the G-IV "does not provide for the automatic deployment of ground spoilers when the thrust reversers are selected" which is common on other aircraft types of the same generation. It was additionally considered that the EICAS caution 'GND SPOILER UNARM' which did occur prior to the accident landing was not an effective way to help the crew to detect such an omission. And it was noted that the fact that the 'Before Landing' Checklist order put the EICAS Check ahead of the action to arm the ground spoilers "could habituate crews to the presence of the 'GND SPOILER UNARM' message when checking the EICAS". The formally-documented Conclusion of the Investigation was that the accident had been caused by (a) combination of the following factors: the ground spoilers were not armed during the approach;. (the) lack of a complete check of the items with the ‘‘before landing’’ checklist, and more generally the UJT crews’ failure to systematically perform the checklists as a challenge and response to ensure the safety of