the flight;. procedures and ergonomics of the aeroplane that were not conducive to monitoring the extension of the ground spoilers during the landing;. a possible left input on the tiller or a failure of the nose gear steering system having caused its orientation to the left to values greater than those that can be commanded using the rudder pedals without generating any (corresponding) warning;. a lack of crew training in the ‘‘Uncommanded Nose Wheel Steering’’ procedure, provided to (deal with) uncommanded orientations of the nose gear;. an introduction of this new procedure (without it being) subject to a clear assessment by Gulfstream or the FAA;. failures in updating the documentation of the manufacturer and the operator;. monitoring by the FAA that failed to detect both the absence of any update of this documentation and the operating procedure for carrying out checklists by the operator.. A total of 24 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the FAA assess the appropriateness of making inhibition of the nose gear steering system at high speed on G-IVs mandatory, to prevent the nose gear from being oriented at large angles at high speed. [2015-031]. that the EASA assess the appropriateness of making inhibition of the nose gear steering system at high speed on G-IVs mandatory, to prevent the nose gear from being oriented at large angles at high speed. [2015-032]. that the FAA carry out a study to identify the aircraft that may be affected by the previous recommendation. [2015-033]. that the EASA carry out a study to identify the aircraft that may be affected by the previous recommendation. [2015-034]. that the FAA in conjunction with Gulfstream evaluate the effectiveness of the 'Uncommanded Nose Wheel Steering' procedure in order to ensure that the actions proposed in this procedure effectively enable control of the aeroplane to be regained in the case of a lateral deviation due to a malfunction in the speed range in which this procedure is required. [2015-035]. that the FAA ensure that G-IV operators and organizations training G-IV pilots complete their training by adding the training on the 'Uncommanded Nose Wheel Steering' abnormal procedure and ensure that this training is actually followed by the G-IV pilots and is adapted for the seat occupied in the cockpit. [2015-036]. that the EASA ensure that G-IV operators and organizations training G-IV pilots complete their training by adding the training on the 'Uncommanded Nose Wheel Steering' abnormal procedure and ensure that this training is actually followed by the G-IV pilots and is adapted for the seat occupied in the cockpit. [2015-037]. that the FAA ensure that the updating process of the documentation for operators and training organizations ensures that the procedures and training programmes provided for crews contain the latest updates of the manufacturer’s procedures. [2015-038]. that the EASA ensure that the updating process of the documentation for operators and training organizations ensures that the procedures and training programmes provided for crews contain the latest updates of the manufacturer’s procedures.