and a slow deviation left began. In response, a sharp input on the right rudder pedal and an application of right brake were made, but the deviation continued and the aircraft, "skidding to the right, ran off the runway to the left 385 metres from the runway end at a ground speed of approximately 95 knots". Thereafter, it struck a runway edge light, and the PAPI installation for runway 31 before passing through the metal perimeter fence, across a road and into an area of trees where both wings were detached and released fuel instantly ignited as the aircraft came to a stop. Only one of the two Rescue and Fire Fighting Services personnel mandated under the specifically pre-arranged Level 5 Fire Cover at Le Castellet was present and although they responded quickly, they were unable to bring the fire under control. In respect of this manning level failure, it was found that the request for upgrade of cover from the 'baseline' level 1 to level 5 for the accident flight arrival had been correctly made in advance and accepted by the aerodrome operator. The RFFS unit had then been informed but "the second fire-fighter, scheduled to ensure level 5 protection, arrived late" and since the AFIS Officer was not informed of this absence, they were unaware of the lack of level 5 protection. It was also noted that the responding RFFS operator did not have access to keys which would unlock all gates they might (and did) encounter during emergency response. The Investigation noted that the required Landing Distance for the accident flight was comfortably within the LDA even with up to a 10 knot tail wind component which was not the case. FDR data showed that the approach flown had been stable. It was also noted that the rocks and tress which were struck were outside the Runway Safety Area designated in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) guidance. CVR data showed that although "the atmosphere between the pilots was good and the observable stress level low", several normal Checklists were not requested or not done and, in particular, that the “Before Landing“ Checklist was not fully completed. It also showed that there had been no verbal exchange between the two pilots during the landing roll. The Investigation noted that the immediate cause of the accident was that the crew had been unable to regain directional control of the aircraft as it deviated left despite initiating intuitive input to the rudder pedals and using differential braking. It was found that a number of nose gear steering system failure modes are not detected and in such cases, no 'STEER BY WIRE FAIL' warning would be generated and, crucially, the steering system would not automatically disengage. Certification assumptions that a failure can be countered by an input on the rudder pedals and differential braking were found to be inadequate in the case of both the investigated accident and in a previous USA accident which had led to the introduction