An Investigation was carried out by the French BEA. Relevant data was successfully downloaded from both the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR). The 60-year old Captain held an Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) ATPL and was found to have joined the Operator part time in 2010 after a 31 year career as a pilot at American Airlines. At the time of the accident, he had been flying as Captain on the G-IV for just under a year during which he had accumulated 972 hours. He was accompanied by a 24 year old Co-pilot who had 1350 total flying hours including 556 on type and who had been working for the Operator full time for just over a year. It was found that after a stopover in Athens lasting 9 days, the two pilots and a cabin attendant had positioned earlier on the day of the accident to Istanbul Sabiha Goken where they had boarded three passengers and flown them to Nice, before making the positioning flight to Le Castellet in the early afternoon because there was no parking available for the intended stop of several days. The aircraft was airborne for 22 minutes with the Co-Pilot acting as PF and landed off a manually flown visual approach. It was found that the 'GND SPOILER UNARM' caution had been displayed on the Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS) from the point at which the landing gear had been extended until the end of the flight and noted that it would have been accompanied by a single chime aural alert when first generated. This occurred because the crew had forgotten to arm the ground spoilers during the approach. An Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) 'SINK RATE" caution was found to have been annunciated at 25 feet agl over the runway 13 threshold and after correction of the flight path, main gear touchdown on the 1750 metre-long runway occurred 365 metres beyond the threshold. Braking was commenced, but the initially unrecognised failure of the PM to arm the ground spoilers prior to landing meant that there was only a minimal load on the landing gear which both reduced braking effectiveness and, because of a consequent momentary loss of 'on ground' sensing, led to the thrust reversers retracting almost as soon as they had been (promptly) selected. The rate of deceleration achieved was poor and Master Warnings for 'L-R REV UNLOCKED' were generated because of the failure of the reversers to deploy normally. The nose landing gear initially touched down 785 metres beyond the threshold but pitch increased again and contact was lost. A "strong nose-down input" was applied and the nose landing gear touched down a second time 1050 metres beyond the threshold. At this point, the absence of ground spoiler deployment was noticed and a manual selection was made with "maximum thrust from the thrust reversers was reached one second later". At this point (see the illustration below) there were 655 metres of runway remaining