reverse by the PIC (PF). the fact that the power levers were not retarded to flight idle during the flare (because) neither pilot was aware of their position. the fact that the crew deviated from the SOPs and as a result reached their performance limit and at the end went beyond it.. The following Contributory Factors were also identified: the Operator’s non-precision approaches and the landings at Mannheim City were, with a significant frequency, conducted other than in accordance with the requirements of the OM.. the aircraft manufacturers recommended procedures were not incorporated into the Operators OM Part B or OM Part D.. the practical training of the flight crew by the Operator in respect of the prevention of an erroneous operation of the power levers using instructions published by the aircraft manufacturer had been inadequate.. the crew conducted a non-precision approach which did not comply with the Operators OM requirements or the AIPs procedure.. the design of the power levers was not sufficiently fault-tolerant.. the existing risks caused by problems during the use of the power levers were not recognised correctly and remedied by the responsible authorities and type certificate holders in spite of several occurrences and safety recommendations.. the TDZ at Mannheim City Airfield was not marked.. Safety Action indicated by the accident and already taken by the time the Investigation was completed was noted to have included: The development by the aircraft type certificate holder of Service Bulletin SB 328-76-486 ‘Engine Controls – Modification of Power Lever Assembly and introduction of Crew Aural Alerting Device’ to minimise the risk of an crew operating error which has subsequently been adopted by EASA as part of AD 2009-0196.. The provision of painted aiming point markings on the runway by the Mannheim City Airport Operator.. The following eight Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: that the Operator should, in order to qualify and quantify more accurately and permanently, remedy the existing deficits in the adherence with the SOPs within the Do 328 fleet, extend the existing flight data analysis program for aircraft with a MCTOM of more than 27 tonnes in accordance with ICAO Annex 5 and EU OPS 1 requirements to the Do 328 fleet (and particularly use) this program (to collect and review) data which document adherence to the criteria for stabilised approaches and (touch down within) the touch-down zone. [26/2012]. that the Mannheim City Airfield operator should mark the runway in accordance with the ICAO recommendations. [27/2012]. that the Mannheim City Airfield operator should extend the runway end safety areas according to existing regulations and recommendations or carry out suitable. constructional measures like the installation of energy absorbing surfaces or shorten the runway distance available. [28/2012] that the Luftfahrt-Bundesamt (LBA) should define a written process for the handling of safety recommendations which ensures that they are processed, assessed and answered in a documented fashion. [29/2012]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should define a written process for the handling of safety recommendations