the situation”. It was noted that 8 seconds elapsed before the aircraft commander gave the order to evacuate the aircraft and that he did this without a review of external risks or, in particular, first shutting down the right hand engine. Since ‘Human Factors’ were considered central to the circumstances of the accident, the Investigation reviewed the available evidence and concluded that despite the fact that the flight was a regular scheduled flight with no unusual circumstances such as difficult weather conditions or aircraft technical defects, the flight crew had “reached their performance limit during the approach and at the end of the flight went beyond it”. It was noted that although the training documentation for both pilots “showed individual signs of below-average performance” they nevertheless could be considered to have possessed “sufficient skills”. It was concluded that: “A reason for (their) high stress level was primarily the non-compliance with the…operator’s SOPs. The pilots could, in several instances, not put their full attention on the respective flight phase because they had deviated from the SOPs (e.g. radio communication with the company below FL100) or implemented them too late (e.g. the aircraft was configured after the FAF instead of before the FAF).” Significantly, the Investigation “thought it highly unlikely that these deviations were just an isolated case or limited to this particular flight or crew”. The Investigation also noted that operations at Mannheim Airport had been facilitated by a series of approved exceptions to normal safety standards and procedures triggered by the location of the runway between two public roads. These exceptions were found to include: the provision of the maximum possible runway length by limiting the Runway End Safety Area at the end of runway 27. accepting that the creation of an earth wall at the end of the reduced length runway 27 RESA would protect third parties from aircraft overrunning the runway but ignoring the need to protect the occupants of overrunning aircraft.. the installation of a Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems set to a steeper angle than the Instrument Landing System (ILS) GS as a means to ensure a sufficient altitude when crossing a public road just prior to the runway 27 threshold which required flight path ‘correction’ at a low level and was contrary to the responsible regulator’s own policy of encouraging the conduct of stabilised approaches.. It was also noted that the runway markings were not in compliance with the applicable regulations in that there was neither the required aiming point marking nor the recommended TDZ markings. The difficulty in retarding the power levers, whilst not central to the cause of the accident, was found to be a longstanding problem which had not been properly handled by any of the parties involved. The Investigation concluded that the Causes of the overrun were: the failure to initiate a rejected landing when it was clear that a safe landing was not assured. the fact that after touchdown the power levers could not be pulled into ground idle or