An Investigation was carried out by the Bundesstelle für Flugunfalluntersuchung (Germany) (BFU) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was successfully downloaded. It was found that the inexperienced First Officer had been designated PF and that, although the aircraft commander was relatively experienced,” his leadership skills as a PIC were not always without fault”. During the flight from Berlin, it was noted that there was considerable evidence of the aircraft commander ‘coaching’ the First Officer and that whilst he was occupied on a Company call on COM 2, a significant level bust had been made by the PF which had taken the aircraft below the prevailing Minimum Sector Altitude. The LLZ/DME approach to runway 27 had proceeded broadly in accordance with the promulgated procedure with the aircraft configured for landing soon after passing 1000 ft agl. As the MDA of 760 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings was passed, the AP was disconnected and the aircraft controlled manually thereafter. Pitch control and power selection remained somewhat erratic but the threshold was subsequently crossed at 40 feet agl with only marginal excess speed over the calculated Reference Speed (Vref). However, by this time, a 30% torque had been set and the aircraft began to float in ground effect at about 10 feet agl. As the TDZ of the 1066 metre long runway was overflown, the First Officer handed control to the aircraft commander, who attempted to get the aircraft on the runway by manipulating the control column but without selecting flight idle power. FDR data showed that initial ground contact occurred about 530 m beyond the threshold with about 20% Torque set. After a couple of small bounces, a final touchdown at 93 KCAS occurred. The aircraft commander was then unable to retard the power levers to get into the beta or reverse pitch range and called for the emergency/parking brake to be set. When there was no response to this, he reached over the central pedestal and selected it himself. Whilst the aircraft commander’s right hand was removed from the power levers to set the emergency brake, the First Officer had attempted to retard the power levers himself and was successful, with reverse achieved and ground spoilers fully deployed leading to a marked increase in the rate of deceleration. The aircraft passed the end of the runway with a groundspeed of about 50 knots and then left the paved surface beyond the end of the runway at about 30 knots. The left main landing gear collided with an obstruction and buckled and shortly afterwards, the left wing and left engine collided with an earth wall aligned at an angle to the runway which caused the aircraft to turn right and come to a stop with the nose directly in front of the earth wall. There was no PA to the cabin to brace for impact and flight crew actions in relation to aircraft shutdown and evacuation were such that it was considered that they had been "overwhelmed by