Aircraft operators should consider and be aware of the runway surface condition reporting methodology at the airports to which they operate. Special consideration should be given to those aerodromes that are critical in terms of runway length, challenging weather conditions and aerodrome capability, and reliability for runway surface conditions assessment and reporting. Consideration should be given in particular to the runway surface condition reporting format and terminology in use. Operators should base their assessment at least on: Information contained in the AIP In-service experience Safety occurrence reporting. Information contained in the AIP. In-service experience. Safety occurrence reporting. Aircraft operators include in their flight crew training programme at least the following elements: Description of runway surface condition reporting methods Types of runway contamination and its effects Aeroplane take-off and landing performance on wet and contaminated runways.. Description of runway surface condition reporting methods. Types of runway contamination and its effects. Aeroplane take-off and landing performance on wet and contaminated runways.. When substantial differences are identified at a particular aerodrome or in a particular State or region in relation to runway surface condition assessment and reporting, the operator should ensure that flight crews are properly informed on the type and format of runway surface condition reports they will get at these locations.. In case of uncertainty on runway surface condition reporting, conservative assumptions should be made either in terms of aeroplane performance calculations or, when different conditions are reported for different segments of the runway, in terms of assuming the worst condition for the entire runway.. Flight crews should report the runway braking action encountered when it is not as good as expected according to the values previously reported to them. Flight crew reports should be consistent with the format in use at the aerodrome being operated as they may be used by the aerodrome operator to downgrade the runway condition. They may be used also by the flight crews of subsequent flights using the same runway..