An Investigation is being carried out by the NTSB. The CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and their relevant data were successfully downloaded. With the Captain acting as PF approximately four minutes after taking off from runway 25 at Denver when climbing through approximately 12,500 feet for FL 230 at around 280 KIAS, a selected thrust increase made in order to minimise time exposed to turbulence was immediately followed by a loud bang and the uncommanded shutdown of the right engine. An engine fire warning was annunciated soon afterwards and an emergency was declared to ATC advising the flights intention to return to Denver for an emergency landing. The engine fire checklist was commenced but although both fire shots were activated, the engine fire warning did not subsequently extinguish until the aircraft was on an extended downwind leg for landing. Additional “critical checklists” were then completed and performance for an overweight landing (without fuel dumping for “safety and time reasons”) checked. The Captain completed the single engine approach to and landing on runway 26 without further event. The aircraft was brought to a stop on the runway and the left engine was shut down. Airport RFFS vehicles attended and applied water and foaming agent to the right engine, which had experienced a “flare up” which was quickly extinguished. Once the RFFS had confirmed it was safe to do so, the aircraft was towed clear of the runway and the occupants were disembarked via air stairs and bussed to the terminal. Initial examination of the remains of the fire-damaged right engine (see the illustrations below) found that it had been mainly confined to “the engine accessory components, the thrust reverser skin and the composite honeycomb structure of the inboard and outboard thrust reversers”. It appeared that both halves of the aft cowl were “intact and undamaged” and noted that all four pressure relief doors were in the open position. The spar valve, which stops fuel flow to an engine when its fire handle is pulled in the flight deck, was found in the closed position with no evidence that there had been a fuel-fed fire once it was shut. An examination of the engine accessories found multiple severed fuel, oil and hydraulic lines and the gearbox was fractured. Fire damage to the outboard side of the right engine. [Reproduced from the Official Report] An immediate operation to recover all the fallen engine debris, which included some large pieces of metal, some of which had landed very close to occupied residential property and onto public amenity areas, was commenced by local law enforcement and safety agencies accompanied by locally-based NTSB personnel and continued for several days. Eventually, most of the ejected fan cowl, fan cowl doors and other fallen debris was recovered, laid out in a hangar and identified. Fire damage to the inboard side of the right engine. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that all recovered debris will be subject to further examination to establish the