cowl failure sequence after the fan blade failure and to examine the subsequent progression of fire in the thrust reversers. An initial examination of the right engine fan found that the spinner and spinner cap were in place and appeared to be undamaged (see the illustration below) but although the fan hub was intact, it could not be rotated by hand. All the fan blade roots were in place in the fan hub but two adjacent blades were fractured. One of these had fractured transversely across the aerofoil about 13 cm above the base of the blade at the leading edge and about 19 cm above the base of the blade at the trailing edge. This blade fracture surface was assessed as consistent with fatigue. A second fan blade was also fractured transversely across the airfoil about 66 cm above its base at the leading edge and very slightly less distance from its base at the trailing edge. The fracture surfaces of this second blade were found to have “shear lips consistent with an overload failure”. All the other fan blades were full length but all had, to varying extent, impact damage to their aerofoils. A front view of the damaged engine. [Reproduced from the Official Report] All fan blades were removed from the hub and the blade which was considered to show fracture consistent with fatigue was sent to OEM metallurgical laboratory for further examination led by a senior NTSB metallurgist. The preliminary findings from a Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) examination identified “multiple fatigue fracture origins on the interior surface of a cavity within the blade” (see the illustration below). Work to further characterise the fracture surface and identify the primary origin of the failure are ongoing. The fan blade fracture surface with the suspected origin of the fatigue indicated. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Fluorescent penetrant inspection subsequently identified multiple secondary crack indications within 2.5cm of the fracture surface in the same cavity from where the fatigue failure had originated from and further SEM examination confirmed these to be potential secondary cracks. Work is ongoing “to further characterise the size and depth of these secondary cracks before attempting to open at least two of them for further examination” and the chemical composition and microstructure near the fracture surface will also be analysed. As an immediate response to the event under investigation, it was noted that two days after it had occurred, Pratt & Whitney had issued “Special Instruction 29F-21” detailing a reduction in the Thermal Acoustic Image (TAI) inspection intervals to 1000 cycles for first stage Low Pressure Compressor (LPC) blades on the engine variant involved. The following day, the FAA issued EAD 2021-05-51 requiring that Pratt & Whitney PW4077 and similar type engines should, before further flight, be subject to a TAI inspection of the first stage LPC blades for cracks and the immediate removal from service and replacement of any blade which does not pass this inspection. An initial review of maintenance and inspection data for