Aerodrome conflict scenarios are sometimes difficult to generalise due to the wide range of local variables. It might be difficult to separate the common (e.g. human error, safety barrier, etc.) from the specific (e.g. aerodrome layout, local equipment, local weather, etc.). The following factors have the greatest potential to affect the availability and the effectiveness of the safety barriers: Availability of surveillance information affects the likelihood of detection of RWY incursions and incorrect movement on the Manoeuvring Area. The level of ATC service may differ depending on equipage: No surveillance information available Basic Surface Movement Radar (SMR) Advanced Surface Movement & Guidance Control System (A-SMGCS) Level 1 (provides identification of aircraft and vehicles) Advanced Surface Movement & Guidance Control System (A-SMGCS) Level 2 (provides identification and alerting functions) Integrated Tower Working Position (ITWP) using input and display of the ATC clearances in addition to surveillance to enable the use of early warnings to highlight any non-conformance to clearance. No surveillance information available. Basic Surface Movement Radar (SMR). Advanced Surface Movement & Guidance Control System (A-SMGCS) Level 1 (provides identification of aircraft and vehicles). Advanced Surface Movement & Guidance Control System (A-SMGCS) Level 2 (provides identification and alerting functions). Integrated Tower Working Position (ITWP) using input and display of the ATC clearances in addition to surveillance to enable the use of early warnings to highlight any non-conformance to clearance. Visibility conditions from the Tower. The possibility of recognising potential threats in good time may differ depending upon visual impairment: day/night fog/mist low cloud affecting high control towers sunlight and glare during day precipitation on windows airport floodlighting during night, especially temporary work in progress. day/night. fog/mist. low cloud affecting high control towers. sunlight and glare during day. precipitation on windows. airport floodlighting during night, especially temporary work in progress. Runway configuration can influence how the operations on each runway can be affected by the operations on the adjacent ones and therefore how the specific barriers can be applied: Multiple Parallel/Intersecting runways Mixed mode/Single mode operations. Multiple Parallel/Intersecting runways. Mixed mode/Single mode operations. Line of sight from the ATC Tower can differ based on the position, height, design, equipment and distance of the tower. These can restrict the direct view of the relevant part of the runways and manoeuvring area. ATC Safety Net Alerts – their availability could impact the timeliness of conflict resolution: A-SMGCS Level 2 Conflicting ATC Clearances (CATC) Conformance Monitoring for Controllers (CMAC) Airport Ground Systems, e.g. Runway Guard Lasers and Loops. A-SMGCS Level 2. Conflicting ATC Clearances (CATC). Conformance Monitoring for Controllers (CMAC). Airport Ground Systems, e.g. Runway Guard Lasers and Loops.