An Investigation was carried out for the Spanish Government. The DFDR and CVR from both aircraft were recovered and successfully downloaded under supervision in the USA. The 50-year old Captain of the KLM aircraft had accumulated 11,700 total flying hours including 1,545 hours on type over 6 years. He was the airline's Chief Flying Instructor. His 42 year-old First Officer had accumulated 9,200 total flying hours including 95 on type after previous experience as a DC8 First Officer. The 48 year-old Flight Engineer had accumulated 17,031 flying hours of which 543 were on type. The 56-year old Captain of the Pan American aircraft had accumulated 21,043 total flying hours including 564 hours on type. His 39 year-old First Officer had accumulated 10,800 total flying hours including 2,796 on type. The 46 year-old Flight Engineer had accumulated 15,210 flying hours of which 559 were on type. It was established that a number of aircraft, including the two Boeing 747s, had been diverted to Tenerife after Las Palmas airport had been closed following a bomb explosion in the terminal building. It had not been possible to park all these aircraft on the ramp and five of them - the two 747s and three single aisle types - had been parked on the parallel taxiway near the runway 12 threshold. When Las Palmas had reopened, the Pan Am aircraft had been ready to go first but there had been insufficient clearance to allow it to taxi past the KLM aircraft parked in front which was not ready because the Captain had decided to refuel the aircraft (taking 30 minutes) so that it would not be necessary to refuel in Las Palmas before returning to Amsterdam. The effect of this was that the KLM aircraft would depart ahead of the Pan Am aircraft - which would in turn also need to backtrack the runway, at least in part, to reach the beginning of the runway in the take-off direction. When this happened, the ATC clearance was to leave the runway at the C3 exit - which would have required a problematic 150° left turn onto the link taxiway followed by an even more problematic 150° right turn onto the parallel taxiway to resume the taxi towards the start of the runway. In the end, for undetermined reasons including either the difficulty locating or using this exit, the aircraft had continued past it towards the next exit, C4 which required only a 35° left turn to exit. By the time the KLM aircraft had been refuelled, visibility had deteriorated when "low-lying clouds reduced visibility to the point at which neither aircraft taxiing on the main runway, nor some of those located in the parking area, were visible from the Tower". The KLM aircraft was cleared, with the Captain as PF, to enter the runway and backtrack to the first available exit before continuing on the parallel taxiway. When this clearance was misunderstood by the crew, it was revised by ATC to backtrack all the way