and carry out a 180° turn to the take-off direction on reaching the end of the runway. The completion of the Take Off Check List by the First Officer was followed 5 seconds later by "a slight increase in the EPR of all four engines" as evident in the DFDR data upon which the First Officer is recorded as saying "wait a minute, we don't have an ATC clearance" and received the response from the Captain of "no, I know that, go ahead, ask". The First Officer then transmitted "Ah - KLM4805 is now ready for take off and we're waiting for our ATC clearance". The communication was heard in the Pan Am flight deck and was followed by the Departure Clearance for KLM from ATC - but not their take off clearance. The Departure Clearance was read back correctly by the First Officer which took 8 seconds. Less than 2 seconds into the read back, the aircraft brakes were released, it began to move down the runway and the Captain was recorded as saying "let's go... check thrust". Having recognised that take-off was beginning, the First Officer added to the end of his read back "we are now at take-off". ATC replied with "OK, stand by for take-off... I will call you". This message ended 2½ seconds after take-off EPR (based on the use of reduced thrust) had been reached on the KLM aircraft. Immediately on hearing this ATC transmission, the Pan Am Captain, whose aircraft was by this time backtracking the runway prior to exiting onto the parallel taxiway, responded on the radio with "no uh" and the First Officer followed with the transmission "and we are still taxiing down the runway, the Clipper 1736". ATC replied promptly to the Pan Am message with a request to "report runway clear" which received the confirmation from Pan Am of "OK, will report when we're clear". All three messages were audible in the KLM flight deck, the first slightly attenuated by a "shrill noise" lasting 2½ seconds. The KLM CVR recording then showed intercom activity amongst the flight crew which took just over 3 seconds as follows: Flight Engineer "is he not clear then?”. Captain "what do you say?". PA channel "yup". Flight Engineer "Is he not clear that Pan American?". Captain "Oh, yes" (spoken emphatically). Just under 8 seconds after this confident assertion that the other 747 had cleared the runway (and in the continuing absence of a take-off clearance), the First Officer called V1 and rotation was recorded as beginning. Four seconds after this, the CVR records the Captain "uttering an exclamation" and impact with the other aircraft follows almost immediately. The Pan Am CVR recording indicated that it was likely that "its crew saw the KLM aircraft approximately 8.5 seconds before the impact" and "amidst logical exclamations of alarm they accelerated to try to get off the runway but the collision was already inevitable". Impact was calculated to have occurred between the runway exits C3 and C4