with the Pan Am aircraft turned approximately 45° to the left as the result of the actions of its crew on sight of the approaching KLM aircraft. The wreckage of the Pan Am aircraft was found approximately 1,385 metres from the start of the 3,400 metre long runway with the wreckage of the KLM aircraft approximately 450 metres further on. It was concluded that the KLM aircraft had been "almost entirely airborne when the impact took place" and that its "fuselage had skidded over the Pan Am aft fuselage, destroying it and shearing off the empennage". After continuing airborne for a further 150 metres, it slid another 300 metres on the runway before coming to a stop and catching fire "suddenly and violently". No exits were found to have been opened on the KLM aircraft and it was concluded that the occupants had perished as the result of the direct or indirect effects of the fire which broke out. Those who escaped from the Pan Am aircraft did so from the forward fuselage in the space of about a minute. It was noted that "the crew and (two Company ground staff who were positioning on the flight) had helped effectively in the evacuation". The very poor visibility at the time of the accident "prevented the collision from being immediately and directly visible from the Control Tower" where they heard only one explosion followed by another without being able to localise them or ascertain their cause. Nevertheless, the fire alarm was immediately sounded and after receiving an indication that there was a fire "to the left of the parking area", the RFFS vehicles set out in that direction and after "seeing a bright light through the fog" eventually located one and then two aircraft on fire. Having observed that only in the case of one of these (the Pan Am aircraft) was the situation likely to be 'recoverable' in any way, they concentrated their efforts there. The fires were not completely extinguished until the early hours of the following day. The context for the accident was noted as having been the weather conditions at the airport which was experiencing fog with intermittent clearances to low cloud throughout the period. At the time of the collision, the only runway at Tenerife was 12/30 which was active in the 30 direction and was NOTAM'd as having unserviceable centreline lighting, a matter of some relevance given that pilot confidence that minimum forward visibility for a low visibility take-off is normally determined by the number of centreline lights visible and that the minimum visibility for take-off with only a marked centreline is always higher. RVR was not reported at the airport, but data from a visibility transmissometer at the approach end of runway 30 were available and showed that the runway visibility there four minutes prior to the collision was 300 metres in light rain with fog patches present. The dynamics of authority on the KLM flight deck were considered, on the evidence available, to