have been a critical factor in creating the circumstances that led to the collision. In respect of KLM Captain's commencement of take-off without clearance and apparent failure to monitor R/T effectively in respect of the communications about backtracking by the other 747, it was considered that the fact that he was the Company's Chief Flying Instructor was likely to have been a determinant of the 'authority gradient' in the flight deck between him and both the First Officer and the Flight Engineer in terms of their willingness to openly challenge his errors and narrow focus on getting airborne as soon as possible. The First Officer's hurried addition of the non-standard phrase "we are at take-off" to his Departure Clearance read back when he realised take-off without clearance had begun was his final attempt to respond to the Captain's error before giving up. It was considered that a similar weakness had also been evident when the Flight Engineer's query as the aircraft began to accelerate "is he not clear, that Pan American" received an "emphatic" assertion from the Captain that it was. In the case of the First Officer, it was noted that he had only recently become qualified on type and had been initially certified in that capacity by the Captain. It was considered by the Investigation that "in case of doubt, these circumstances could have induced the Co-pilot not to ask any questions and to assume that this Captain was always right". The Investigation found that the Fundamental Cause of this accident was the fact that the KLM Captain: Took off without clearance.. Did not obey the "stand by for take-off" from the tower.. Did not interrupt take-off when Pan Am reported that they were still on the runway.. In reply to the flight engineer's query as to whether the Pan Am airplane had already left the runway, replied emphatically in the affirmative.. Three Contributory Factors were also identified: The Inadequate use of language. When the KLM co-pilot repeated the ATC clearance, he ended with the words, "We are now at take-off." The controller, who had not been asked for take-off clearance, and who consequently had not granted it, did not understand that they were taking off. The "OK" from the Tower, which preceded the "stand by for take-off" was likewise incorrect - although irrelevant in this case because the take-off had already started about six and a half seconds before.. The Pan Am aeroplane not leaving the runway at the third intersection. This aeroplane should, in fact, have consulted with the Tower to find out whether the third intersection referred to was C-3 or C-4, if it had any doubts but did not do this. However, this was not very relevant either since the Pan Am aeroplane never reported clear of the runway but, on the contrary, twice advised that it was taxiing on it.. Unusual traffic congestion. This congestion obliged the Tower to carry out taxiing manoeuvres which, although permitted, as in the case of having aeroplanes