Communication breakdown may result in: The pilot failing to fly the required vertical profile which may lead to a level bust, or not following the required horizontal profile: Either situation may cause the aircraft to make an unauthorised entry of designated airspace (airspace infringement) which may leading to disruption of air traffic causing risk to other airspace users and increased workload for pilots and controllers, or may put the infringing aircraft at risk from ground hazards such as artillery firing; Either situation can lead to loss of separation from other aircraft, or airborne objects (Ballons or parachutists for example) which may result in collision. Level bust may also lead to collision with an obstacle or the ground (CFIT); Injury, especially to cabin crew or passengers, may be occasioned by sudden manoeuvres to avoid collision with other aircraft or the ground, or as a result of a wake vortex turbulence encounter;. Either situation may cause the aircraft to make an unauthorised entry of designated airspace (airspace infringement) which may leading to disruption of air traffic causing risk to other airspace users and increased workload for pilots and controllers, or may put the infringing aircraft at risk from ground hazards such as artillery firing;. Either situation can lead to loss of separation from other aircraft, or airborne objects (Ballons or parachutists for example) which may result in collision.. Level bust may also lead to collision with an obstacle or the ground (CFIT);. Injury, especially to cabin crew or passengers, may be occasioned by sudden manoeuvres to avoid collision with other aircraft or the ground, or as a result of a wake vortex turbulence encounter;. The pilot changing to an incorrect frequency or not implementing a frequency change, leading to: Loss of Situational Awareness; Inability to respond to further clearance or to emergency instructions, e.g. avoiding action. This is exacerbated if the pilot fails to check in on any frequency having acknowledged a requested change;. Loss of Situational Awareness;. Inability to respond to further clearance or to emergency instructions, e.g. avoiding action.. This is exacerbated if the pilot fails to check in on any frequency having acknowledged a requested change;. Runway Incursion and other hazardous situations while on the ground.. Confusion between, and increased workload for, ATCOs..