An Investigation was carried out by the Czech Republic Air Accident Investigation Institute. The A321 DFDR was downloaded and the positions of the various aircraft were established using the radar record from the Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System system. Significant damage to the left horizontal stabiliser of the A321 was found to have occurred - see the illustration below taken from the official report - and part of the vertical section of the 737 winglet had been sheared off and deposited on the taxiway, from where it had been subsequently recovered. It was noted that the runway in use at the time was 06 and that the benign prevailing weather conditions had played no part in the accident. It was confirmed that the various taxiway markings were in accordance with the requirements of ICAO Annex 14. Both taxiways ‘E’ and ‘F’ were marked as 23 metres wide within a paved strip 44 metres wide. It was noted that there were two designated and marked holding points on taxiway 'E’, one for normal use and one for use in LVP. There was also a broken yellow line marking the boundary between taxiway ‘E’ and taxiway ‘F’ positioned 34.5 metres ahead of the LVP holding point. It was recorded that the flight crew of both aircraft were experienced on type but apparent from the information documented by the Investigation that both First Officers had acquired in one case all and in the other case most of their flying hours on the single aircraft type involved. When the collision occurred, it was established that an A320 was stationary approximately 15 metres short of the Cat 1 holding point on link taxiway ‘E’ waiting for an intersection departure and that the 44.5 metre long A321 was also stationary just under 40 metres behind this A320 - although in their statement to the Investigation, the A321 crew estimated that their distance behind the A320 had been 10 metres. The actual stopped position of the A321 nose was coincidental with the broken yellow line indicating the beginning of taxiway ‘E’ so that the whole of the A322 remained on the area included in the designation of taxiway ‘F’ - although only a small part of the rear of the aircraft had protruded onto the paved shoulder of the actual taxiway A Bombardier CRJ-200 taxiing on taxiway ‘F’ for a full length departure passed behind the A321 with a clearance of approximately 6 metres. Just over two minutes later, the 737, which had been given clearance to taxi along taxiway ‘F’ for a full length departure stopped just before the taxiway ‘E’ turn off and advised it could depart from that intersection but ATC had “for operational reasons” requested that the aircraft continue as cleared. Just after taxiing resumed, the Captain of the 737 asked the First Officer to check the clearance of the 34.4 metre wingspan aircraft and was told that it was sufficient. On the basis of this assurance, he continued slowly taxiing