and as a precaution deviated to the left of the taxiway centreline by approximately 0.5 metres but as the aircraft proceeded, the right winglet had struck the left horizontal stabiliser of the A321. The 737 stopped and reported the collision on the GND frequency and shortly afterwards, the A321 reported the collision on the TWR frequency. On the basis that neither aircraft had requested assistance, ATC then cleared both to return to the terminal and the emergency services were not alerted. However, since the taxi route back to the terminal involved both aircraft taxiing via runway 06, airport operations were asked to carry out an inspection for possible debris before the runway was used for further take offs or landings. In the case of both aircraft, a damage and consequent risk assessment was not made until the aircraft had reached their parking stands. Although no direct remark on the matter was included in the Investigation Report, the confirmed position of the A321 and the track of the 737 meant that with the wingtip of the 737 nearly 31 metres from the taxiway centreline, the height of the winglet meant that a collision was inevitable. The diagram below taken from the Investigation Report shows the stopped position of the A321 at the time of the collision with the 737 passing behind. The Investigation Commission came to the following formal Conclusions: The B737-800 crew did not make good assessment of the distance between their right wing tip and the A321. The FO was not able to (assess) the distance (accurately).. Both of the crews did not make good judgement of the gravity of the situation, did not ask for the damage scope assessment on the scene, and taxied with their damaged aircraft back to the apron.. The TWR shift leader decided not to put the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services on the alert Air Accident since he had not enough information available at that time.. The Commission formally determined that the Cause of the collision was “human factor failure - the taxiing crew did not keep a safe separation distance of their aircraft from the standing one”. The Final Report CZ-10-229 of the Investigation was completed on 15 November 2010 and published the following month. No Safety Recommendations were made - the Commission commented that any such action would be left to the “discretion of the national AIBs of either aircraft”.