A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB). Relevant data was successfully downloaded from both the SSFDR and the 2 hour SSCVR. ECAM messaging relevant to the aircraft engines and systems which had been presented to the pilots of the final and previous flights was also examined and ATC radar and Gatwick Airport CCTV recordings were also available as was the maintenance history of the aircraft. Since early findings of the Investigation were conclusive as to the underlying cause of the engine malfunction, a Special Bulletin covering this progress was published on 21 April 2020. It was noted that the 28 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 5,059 hours flying experience of which all but 204 hours were on type. The 38 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,245 hours flying experience of which all but 162 hours were on A320 series aircraft. The 52 year-old Engineer whose actions during a period of scheduled base maintenance at Larnaca Cyprus prior to the series of flights during which engine abnormalities due to fuel system contamination occurred was found to hold a EASA Part 66 Category B1, B2 and C Licence without limitations. He had accumulated a total of 24 years experience which included A320 series aircraft with both permitted engine types (CFM 56 and IAE V2500) installed. He had been working for the MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul company) involved for four months and his recent duty pattern had been Monday-Friday with weekends off and the weeks alternating between early and late daytime shifts. His first language was not English and although he had “communicated effectively in conversation with the AAIB”, he had spoken predominantly in the present tense even when describing events in the past. He claimed that he had “no difficulty working with procedures written in English”. The 47 year-old Line Engineer who inspected the aircraft at Gatwick and found no fault prior to its release to service for the investigated flight held a Category A and B1 Licence and had a total of 30 years experience which included A320 series aircraft with both permitted engine types. He had been working for the MRO involved for four months and worked four 12 hour shifts followed by three days off each week. The first two shifts were always days and the second two were always nights. The shift during which he unintentionally released the un-airworthy aircraft to service was his second night shift and therefore his last shift prior to three days off. However, a sleep and work history compiled for the Investigation “did not indicate any sleep or task related risk factors for fatigue”. It was established that during the 24 hours preceding this Serious Incident, during which three flights had been conducted, the aircraft had experienced abnormalities in engine performance which had eventually resulted in maintenance action which found no fault and had therefore resulted in it being released to service. It was noted