the thrust levers remaining set to FLEX/MCT. A number of the staff passengers (cabin crew) reported having seen flames coming from the No 1 engine tailpipe and had attempted to contact the flight deck by interphone. The Captain made a MAYDAY call and requested a return and then spoke to the passengers. He disengaged the AP and turned right onto a downwind leg (see the illustration below) and then set the No 1 engine thrust lever to idle. An annotated radar-derived flight path for the investigated flight. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Subsequently, he “recalled seeing the No 2 engine control indications begin to fluctuate” and just after beginning descent, the ECAM ‘ENG 2 STALL’ message appeared “three times in quick succession” which prompted the Captain to increase thrust on the No 1 engine. He subsequently stated that both engines had appeared more stable when the thrust was reduced while descending and he had decided to keep the N1 of both engines at “around 49%”. The aircraft was then positioned for a 9 nm final approach to runway 27L and intentionally flown slightly above the ILS GS “so he could glide the aircraft to the runway if the engine problems worsened”. The approach and landing were completed without further problems and after touchdown following eleven minutes airborne, it was noted that reverse thrust appeared to operate normally. Chemical analysis of the small amount of debris present in both engines’ fuel filters indicated unusually high levels of magnesium, a constituent element present in the biocide product trade name ‘Kathon’. Both engines were subjected to an initial visual inspection by borescope on the day after the flight under investigation. The condition of both engines was similar. There was apparently no significant damage to the fan, LP compressor or HP compressor with minor defects observed being within AMM tolerances. However, the combustion chambers, HPT blades and LPT blades of both engines “were coated in a thin layer of white material that was observed on the turbine blades’ convex surfaces” as were the HPT nozzle guide vanes but as the engines were not disassembled, it was not possible to obtain a sample of this deposit. A subsequent borescope inspection did not find any damage to the No 1 engine which exceeded AMM limits but 16 blades of the Stage 3 HP compressor of the No 2 engine and one Stage 7 HP compressor blade were found to have smooth impact depressions on the blade root radius which were outside AMM limits. It was not possible to tell if this damage was present before the investigated flight departed. Both engines’ Hydro Mechanical Units were removed and sent to the OEM where they were found to be contaminated with a sticky brown residue which infrared analysis showed was a mixture of dipropylene glycol, nitrate salt and water which was consistent with the chemical composition of Kathon biocide. Fuel removed from the aircraft was also found to indicate contamination with undesolved Kathon. It was found that prior