to the four flights which had culminated in the one under investigation, the aircraft involved had undergone scheduled heavy maintenance at a Cyprus-based MRO. The work package for this maintenance input included biocidal treatment of the fuel tanks which had been added after prior testing had found “moderate” contamination. The AMO Work Card for this task did not designate this as a ‘Critical’ maintenance task. The work was required to be carried out in accordance with a detailed AMM procedure in which fuel is mixed with Kathon biocide at a concentration of 100 ppm by volume and the aircraft is then pressure-refuelled using the onboard automatic control function. The AMOs base engineer was unfamiliar with the term ‘ppm’ and it was not explained in the AMM. He stated that he had therefore “searched the internet for a definition and conversion calculator” and using the one he found had calculated that he needed 30 kg of Kathon for the 6,200 kg of fuel which would be uplifted to each wing tank. However, taking the slightly different Specific Gravities of Kathon and fuel into account, the correct quantity of Kathon was 0.799kg per wing tank, a dramatically different figure to 30kg. He was unable to remember what website he had used or how he performed the calculation but had concluded that 60 kg of the AMM-required ‘Kathon’ biocide would be required for each of two Airbus A320 aircraft due to be treated during January/February 2019 and had made a corresponding ‘material requisition’ for this quantity in good time so that it was available in the stores when the first aircraft was scheduled to receive the treatment. A different engineer, who was also unsure what ‘ppm’ meant, was assigned to carry out the treatment on the other aircraft ahead of G-POWN and having consulted the engineer who had ordered the biocide for advice then added it at a rate of 3814 ppm instead of the specified 100 ppm. However, the engines of this other aircraft were not subsequently started and still had not been started when information about the G-POWN, which had subsequently received the same overdose, were received. It was noted that the AMM included two options for mixing the biocide and fuel, either prior to the mixed fuel being uplifted to the aircraft or using a metering rig during the refuelling process. However, there was no access to a metering rig and there were no instructions on how to mix the additive and the fuel prior to uplift so despite the fact that it was not an approved AMM process, the overwing refuel aperture was used to add the biocide to each wing tank. These two biocide treatments were only the second and third such treatments which the MRO involved had carried out since its first some eight months earlier. This first treatment had been overseen by a similarly licensed engineer but he also had a degree in Mechanical Engineering and so was familiar with the term ‘ppm’. Following completion of