the biocide treatment, the aircraft was positioned from Larnaca to the operator’s base at London Stansted for a night stop before it was further positioned to London Gatwick the following morning to undertake the revenue flight to Krakow and back. The action taken at Gatwick in response to the Captain’s Technical Log defect entry was performed by a licensed engineer contracted by the operator to provide line maintenance services for them at Gatwick. He acted in accordance with instructions provided by the operator’s Technical Control Office. The applicable A320 Trouble Shooting Manual (TSM) was provided using the Airbus online system (Airbus World) which at the time was available in two versions, a ‘legacy’ one (AirN@v) and an updated version (airnavX). The engineer was obliged to use the ‘legacy’ version since the aircraft operator had only granted the AMO providing the engineer with access to that version. This legacy version of the Manual did not require the user to identify which of the available data was applicable to a specific aircraft or engine type before beginning the trouble shooting process although the latter was possible and Airbus “recommended that the TSM must always be filtered for a specific aircraft registration, fleet serial number or effectivity and that it should be accessed using the ‘Start Troubleshooting’ function”. Having not first identified the appropriate aircraft-specific procedure, the engineer then printed out and followed the TSM procedure for “Stall above idle on engine 1(2)” for the V2500 engine instead of the “Stall of engine 1 or 2 in flight” for the CFM engines fitted to G-POWN. The latter “required an extensive examination of the engine, including borescope inspections of the high pressure and Stage 1 low pressure turbine blades” whereas the incorrect procedure followed resulted in no fault being found and the aircraft being released to service, a very significant consequence. A survey of AMOs with EASA 145 approval was undertaken to find out how often they carried out biocide fuel tank treatments and led to the finding that although a few carried out a lot of them, over half only performed them relatively infrequently which indicated that this task was “generally not a routine or common procedure”. Also, few of the AMOs responding to the survey classified the dosing task as a critical maintenance task in accordance with EASA Part M.A.402(h) and most did not provide specific training for it with those who did stating that this mainly related to the use of metered injection rigs. It was found that the Cyprus MRO where the biocide dosing error occurred had only recently begun trading as such with considerable evidence indicating that the level of work contracted was stretching capability beyond levels general conducive to safety. In the case of the Gatwick line engineer’s failure to identify the correct inspection response for the documented defect recorded in the aircraft Technical Log, the same scenario presented to other engineers unfamiliar with the occurrence did not result in all of them using an approved TSM process