that the flight crew operating the investigated flight had also operated the inbound non-revenue positioning flight from the operator’s base at London Stansted to London Gatwick in the early hours of the previous day and had then spent the day at a hotel near the airport whilst a second fight crew used the aircraft to operate international passenger flights to Krakow and back. After successfully starting the No 2 engine prior to the flight from London Stansted to London Gatwick, the first crew had problems starting the No 1 engine. It was reported that “an engineer, who was assisting with the engine starts via an external headset, advised them to attempt another start on the No 1 engine”, which was successful and the performance of both engines thereafter was normal. The engines also functioned normally on the outbound flight to Krakow operated by the second crew but on departure from Krakow for the return flight, the No 1 engine again “required more than one attempt” to achieve a successful start. After getting airborne from Krakow, the Captain sent a datalink message to the aircraft operator notifying them of the starting problem. Later on in the flight, an ECAM ‘ENG 2 STALL’ message was displayed momentarily on two occasions during which the crew reported having felt airframe vibration. On the second occasion, the message occurred during the descent with N1 at about 66%. There was no concurrent change in engine control indications, but having “perceived” that the vibration had been less at lower thrust settings, they attempted to maintain the N1 at below 50%. Following arrival at Gatwick, the Captain telephoned the operator’s Technical Control Office and reported the No 2 engine stall event and made a corresponding defect entry in the aircraft Technical Log. He then spoke to the Captain who had brought the aircraft to Gatwick earlier in the day and would be taking it back to Stansted to update him on the situation. The attending engineer could find no fault which would explain the defect entry made and so cleared the defect entry and released the aircraft to service. The oncoming Captain “agreed with Technical Control that he would accelerate the engines to 50% N1 for longer than usual" before takeoff to “check the engine control indications”. For the third time, the No 2 engine started normally but the No 1 did not and the Captain decided to speak again to Technical Control who “suggested that the No 1 engine’s abnormalities were only associated with starting and to attempt another start”. As on the previous occasions, this was successful and after normal engine indications with the engines at 50% N1, takeoff was commenced. The Captain reported that climbing through about 500 feet agl, the No 1 engine had begun “banging and surging” with corresponding fluctuations in its control indications but no accompanying ECAM message. FDR data showed that at this time, the No 1 engine N1 had dropped below 40% for a period of approximately 25 seconds with