although most did do so and as a result identified the correct procedure. It was noted that the most routine competency assessment for the engineer who had responded to the defect which had recently been performed by the organisation’s station manager had not documented evidence of his method of using the TSM or his confirmation that maintenance data printed was “correct for the task and had the correct effectivity”. Overall there were potentially significant concerns about the way both training and competency assessment appeared to be being conducted at the AMO involved. It was noted that the investigated event was not the first in-flight event involving the malfunction of both engines which the subsequent independent investigation had attributed to incorrect biocide dosing. The 2019 event to a Boeing 787-8 in Japan was published by the Japan Transport Safety Board whilst the Gatwick event Investigation was being carried out. Safety Action taken as a result of this event whilst the Investigation was in progress and known to it was noted as having included, but not been limited to, the following: Within a month of the occurrence, both the EASA and the FAA issued Information Bulletins to alert aircraft operators and their aircraft maintenance organisations of the importance of effective risk management in relation to the use of biocide fuel additives.. The manufacturers of Kathon, the biocide involved, almost immediately discontinued the use of the product for all aviation fuel applications and both CFM and GE recommended suspending the use of Kathon during aircraft fuel system biocide treatments.. Airbus has begun revising the AMMs for all its aircraft types to replace ‘ppm’ with the term ‘ml/1,000ltrs’ and notified its intention to include a definition of ‘ppm’ in the AMM glossary in cases where this term is used elsewhere.. The IATA Technical Fuel Group established an informal Biocide Task Force to facilitate sharing of industry experience and best practices between airlines, AMOs and OEMs and support both the development of an equipment standard for biocide metered injection systems and research into alternative biocide products.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency amend the Acceptable Means of Compliance AMC2(a)(3) for regulation Part-145.A.48(b), Performance of Maintenance, to include the treatment of aircraft fuel systems with biocide additives as an example task that is to be considered as a critical maintenance task. [2020-018]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency amend the Acceptable Means of Compliance AMC1(c) for regulation M.A.402(h), Performance of Maintenance, to include the treatment of aircraft fuel systems with biocide additives as an example task that is to be considered as a critical maintenance task. [2020-019]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) conduct safety promotion with the National Aviation Authorities of EASA Member States to promote the classification of biocide treatment of aircraft fuel systems as a critical maintenance task. [2020-020]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency, during future audits of Continued Airworthiness Management Organisations and Approved