within the Kokoda Gap despite the weather conditions not being conducive to visual flight.. It was probable that while manoeuvring at low level near the junction of the Kokoda Gap and Kokoda Valley, the aircraft entered instrument meteorological conditions.. The aircraft collided with terrain in controlled flight.. ‘Other Safety Factors’ were listed as: The copilot was assessed during normal proficiency checks for instrument approach procedures but was not qualified for flight in instrument meteorological conditions.. The operator did not have a published emergency recovery procedure for application in the case of inadvertent flight into instrument meteorological conditions.. The Civil Aviation Safety Authority Papua New Guinea surveillance of the operator did not identify the operations by the operator in contravention of (applicable rules).. The lack of a reliable mandatory occurrence reporting arrangement minimised the likelihood of an informed response to Papua New Guinea-specific safety risks.. There was no qualified Director (or similar) of Aviation Medicine in Papua New Guinea. The lack of both flight data and cockpit voice recorders adversely affected a full understanding of the accident by the investigation.. The investigation was unable to discount the possible incapacitation of the copilot as a factor in the accident.. Although not required by the aviation rules at the time of the accident, the adoption of threat and error management training for flight crews, and of the methodology by operators would provide a tool to identify and mitigate operational risk as follows: by flight crews, when flight planning and during flight; and by operators, when developing their operational procedures.. by flight crews, when flight planning and during flight; and. by operators, when developing their operational procedures.. It was noted that since the accident, both Airlines PNG and the CASA PNG had taken various safety actions in respect of DHC6 aircraft operations in general and operations into Kokoda in particular. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation: That the Civil Aviation Safety Authority PNG review the requirements affecting the installation of cockpit voice recorders in PNG-registered aircraft that are certified to carry 18 or more passengers, with the intent of implementation.. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 31 March 2011 by the ATSB on behalf of the AIC PNG.