An Investigation was carried out by the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission with assistance requested and provided by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). The wreckage was found in a forested area at an altitude of 5780ft amsl. It was noted that the aircraft was not equipped with an Flight Data Recorder (FDR) or a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and neither of these were required by NAA Regulations. However, the aircraft was fitted with a Global Positioning System (GPS) - based tracking system which was independent of aircraft GPS navigation equipment and which was used by Company operations for flight following purposes. The non volatile memory chip from this equipment was recovered from the accident site, successfully downloaded and used to obtain position information which would not otherwise have been available. The Investigation found no evidence of any airworthiness deficiency which might have caused or contributed to the accident. It was established that, prior to impact, the aircraft had been manoeuvring within the Kokoda Gap and it was considered that this had probably been in an attempt to maintain visual flight in reported cloudy conditions. It was noted that in accordance with normal practice, an Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) FPL had been filed for the flight. This apparently meant that once clear of Port Moresby, the flight was intended to be conducted using visual procedures which allowed the crew to operate below applicable MSA of 13,700 ft in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) because there were no radio navigation aids at Kokoda. Circumstantial evidence indicated that the aircraft had probably been in cloud at the time of impact. There was some doubt about the extent of use of the installed GPS equipment for navigation purposes and it was noted that the First Officer had not been instrument rated. A different view was found to have been held by the NAA (CASA PNG) and the Operator (Airlines PNG) as an instrument rated First Officer was required for an IFR FPL to be filed under applicable Regulations. It was also found that the Airlines PNG SOP in respect of inadvertent entry into IMC whilst intending flight by visual reference was “ineffective in preventing Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT)”. The Investigation concluded that the accident was probably the result of controlled flight into terrain: that is, an otherwise airworthy aircraft was unintentionally flown into terrain, with little or no awareness by the crew of the impending collision. A number of ‘factors’ were identified by the Investigation which it was considered had both led to an increased safety risk for the accident flight and were considered to have the potential to affect the safety of future similar flights: the crew of the aircraft. the weather conditions affecting the flight. crew training. the conduct of the flight.. The ‘Contributing Safety Factors’ were listed in the Findings of the Investigation as Visual flight in the Kokoda Gap was made difficult by the extensive cloud coverage in the area.. The crew attempted to continue the descent visually