event were closely examined during the Investigation, particularly in respect of use of the manoeuvring area by snow clearance and associated vehicles and coordination between the GND and TWR controllers when the Plan was in use. The departing 737 was cleared for pushback and start by the GND controller who then received a call from the lead vehicle for two snowploughs working at the northern end of the parallel taxiway which was using the callsign ‘ELEC8’ asking for clearance to enter runway 35L in order to “do the junction” between the runway and taxiway A3. The GND controller instructed the group to “remain outside the safety area of taxiway A3 and then cleared him to enter the runway, specifying that there was a vehicle on the runway carrying out measurements”. The illustration below depicts the annotated ground tracks of both the 737 and the snow clearance vehicle group in a rising number sequence throughout the lead up to the subsequent conflict. The ground tracks of the vehicle group (blue) and the 737 (red) with numbers which correspond to their shared positions prior to and during the incursion. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Seven minutes later, the GND controller cleared the 737 to taxi to the A9 CAT III holding point for runway 35L after which the ‘ELEC8’ informed them that the snowploughs were going to clear snow from taxiway A4 and asked if they could “do the junction” between the taxiway and runway 35L. The GND controller responded by asking the group “hold short of taxiway A4” due to an inbound flight. The GND controller then advised the 737 that “braking conditions on runway 35L were poor" and subsequently instructed it to remain at the holding point on reaching and change to TWR. On checking in with TWR, the controller instructed the 737 to “advance to the stop bar” and after a further minute advised it to line up and issued takeoff clearance (the aircraft was in red point 3 on the illustration). As this clearance was being given, ‘ELEC8’ called GND and the controller advised that the group could proceed with removal of snow from taxiway A4 and its junction with the runway. This clearance was read back with confirmation that the vehicle group was now entering runway 35L (blue point 3 on the illustration). Half a minute after the vehicle group led by ‘ELEC8’ entered the runway safety area, the 737 crew set TOGA thrust (red point 4). After five seconds, the TWR controller instructed the 737 to reject the take-off and the crew acknowledged the instruction and immediately complied, with the aircraft reaching a maximum of 63 KCAS before deceleration took effect (the applicable V1 being 118 KCAS) and once at taxi speed, the TWR controller asked the 737 to vacate the runway via taxiway A6. Three seconds after the 737 had been told to reject its takeoff (red point 5), the GND controller instructed ‘ELEC8’ to lead the two snowploughs off the runway (blue point 5).