of a coordination failure between the GND and TWR controllers and a procedure which kept vehicles cleared to enter the runway on the GND frequency". Four Contributory Factors to the issue of conflicting clearances to enter the runway and to the use of a procedure which kept vehicles on the active runway under GND control were identified as: A high workload in an unusual context where the roles in the Tower were sometimes poorly delimited.. The reopening of runway 17R/35L after snow clearance when snow clearance on the access taxiways to it required the snow clearance vehicles to enter the runway.. Practices without a clear framework regarding the use of frequencies for the vehicles during temporary runway closures.. A stop bar configuration which was incompatible with the paths taken by the snow clearance vehicles.. However, it was noted that whilst the runway incursion can be considered as a failure in itself, it was above all else “symptomatic of the confusion and disorganisation generated by the management of snow clearance” and in this respect, the following factors contributed to the confusion and disorganisation: A Snow Clearance Plan whose definition was too formal and in part, disconnected with operational realities.. Inaccurate measurements of the runway surface condition resulting in a high workload and difficulties in implementing the snow clearance strategy.. Rules for regulating and suspending operations which were difficult for the persons directly involved in traffic management and snow clearance to apply.. Safety Action taken by the Lyon ANSP as a result of the investigated event were noted as having included the issue of a Directive in respect of the frequency to be used when entering the runway safety areas, specifying that the clearance to enter such areas must be given on the TWR frequency. This Directive was subsequently updated to permit the following exceptions in the following cases: The runway concerned is closed for more than one hour and the St Andrew’s crosses at each end of the runway are lit.. The TWR supervisor has told the ARFF Chief that any of their vehicles have complete freedom of movement, in which case there is then no requirement to remain in radio contact with ATC.. It was noted that nine other safety-related changes has been listed for implementation by a “deadline” of April 2020 but by 10 September 2021, only one had been implemented. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: * that the Lyon Control Centre (SNA-CE), in coordination with Aéroports De Lyon, define the decision aid criteria of operation restriction measures in degraded situations (these restrictions may cover the reduction in traffic to the extended closure of a runway or the suspension of operations). [Recommendation FRAN 2021-008] * that the DGAC study whether the decision processes to restrict operations in degraded situations at French aerodromes present similar difficulties to those observed at Lyon Saint-Exupéry airport. [Recommendation FRAN 2021-009] * that Aéroports De Lyon, in coordination with the Lyon Control Centre (SNA-CE), ensure, in a