A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA primarily using relevant recorded data from ATC and airport operator sources. It was noted that around the time of the event, there were four people on duty in the control tower. The GND controller involved had been employed as a controller at the airport since 1999, initially qualified for the GND position and then from 2001 also for the TWR and APP positions. Since 2012, he had been qualified to work in the tower supervisor position and had been in that role initially, before taking the TWR controller position for an hour followed by a 75 minute break before taking over the GND position about 50 minutes before the incursion occurred. The TWR controller involved had been employed at the airport since 2005 and was qualified for GND, TWR and APP positions. He had begun his shift at the same time as the other controller involved and had “mainly occupied the TWR and GND positions” although whilst retaining the TWR position, he had also taken over the APP position about 15 minutes prior to the incursion. A third controller and an assistant who had been covering the APP position prior to it being combined with the TWR position were also in the control room at the time of the incursion. Earlier in the day, there has been substantial snowfall at the airport and as a result of the significance of the forecast conditions having been underestimated, the runways and access to them were still being cleared late in the evening using two snowploughs with blade widths of 8.4 metres and 6.4 metres respectively. At the time of the investigated event, the wind was light, visibility was 2000 metres in mist, continuous moderate snow was falling and the temperature was 0°C. The runways had been cleared but in other parts of the manoeuvring area, wet snow to a depth of 60 mm remained. The snow had not occurred unexpectedly. It was noted that a weather warning specific to the airport and valid from 1800 until 0600 the following day had been issued by Météo-France at 1238 and had forecast “5 to 10 cm of snow with a probability of more than 15 cm”. Also, prior to the issue of this warning, Météo-France officers had contacted the aerodrome operator at 0900 to give an advance warning of snow but noted that “their airport contacts were sceptical because of the current temperature”. They also reported having a telephone conversation with the tower supervisor and the aerodrome operator in the early afternoon, in which they “specified that a substantial amount of snow was expected between 1900 and 2100”. The airport operator had a “Snow Plan” as required by applicable regulations which had been drawn up in conjunction with the ANSP, Météo-France and the French ‘Civil Aviation Safety Directorate’ (DSAC).The Plan as it existed at the time and the way it was implemented on the day of the