This took 30 seconds after which ‘ELEC8’ confirmed that the group were clear of the runway. Approximately ten minutes after the first takeoff clearance had been given, the 737 was cleared to line up again at A9 and subsequently departed without further event. The GND controller involved was relieved of his duties by the tower supervisor immediately after the event. When the snowplough group lead vehicle (‘ELEC8’) asked the GND controller for approval to clear the taxiway A4 access to the runway, the GND controller coordinated with the LOC controller but the latter asked that the group be asked to wait as there was an aircraft on approach which was likely to use the taxiway. A few minutes later, the GND controller was again contacted by ‘ELEC8’ and after the expected landing had occurred, the GND controller cleared the group to enter the runway and kept them on his frequency without any attempt at coordination. As previously stated, at the same time, the TWR controller was clearing the 737 to line up and take off. It was noted that although the vehicle group was given clearance to enter an active runway, it was not transferred to the TWR frequency but instead was kept on the GND frequency and that “whilst this practice existed, it was uncommon”. Thereafter, the GND controller “did not follow the progression of the snowploughs and did not detect the conflict” and was instead discussing the surface conditions with the tower supervisor to help him with the snow clearance strategy. Fortunately, the TWR controller continued both visual monitoring of the outside environment and the surface movement radar which enabled him to identify the incursion and prompt action to prevent a potential ground collision or the possible consequences of a late avoidance manoeuvre. It was noted that since LVP were in force, the controllable stop bars at runway entry points would normally be lit to protect in-use runways but at the time of the incursion, the stop bars at A3 and A4 were permanently lit and the one at A6 was permanently unlit. The former status negated their use as a runway incursion prevention tool. Finally, it was of concern that various aspects of operational complexity in relation to the ‘Snow Plan’ were not helped by the fact that it was “exclusively based on the DSAC procedure (and) does not constitute an aid in making operational decisions about traffic regulation during snow-clearance operations”. It was noted that DGAC database included at least 14 occurrences between 2015 and 2019 relating to runway or taxiway incursions by snow-clearance vehicles of which 7 had involved the risk of collision with an aircraft. Many of these had involved no radio contact between snow clearance vehicles and the ATC and/or a communication problem between an escorting vehicle and its snowploughs. An investigation into a similar event at Toronto in 2019 was also noted. The Cause of the Runway Incursion was “an erroneous clearance for vehicles to enter the active runway as a result