which had led to the accident, the Investigation elected to focus on the following areas: Pilot Spatial Disorientation. It was considered that loss of control in night IMC and the aircraft entering an unusual attitude such as a spiral dive was “a likely scenario” give that cognitive and/or physiological factors may have contributed to the loss of control by limiting the pilot’s ability to monitor and understand the flight instruments effectively. It was quite possible that the pilot had experienced some combination of spatial disorientation, high workload, and attentional narrowing associated with single-pilot operation of the aircraft was also considered. The lack of evidence that night and of instrument proficiency being maintained was noted. However, without recorded flight data, the factors that contributed to the aircraft deviating both laterally and vertically from the intended flight path during the climb and potentially to an eventual loss of control could not be conclusively established. Aircraft Weight & Balance. Although the flight was conducted outside the forward limit of the flight envelope, which created an increased wing loading and stall speed, it was considered unlikely that this situation had contributed to the accident. Aircraft Technical Anomalies. No evidence that a lack of airworthiness was likely to have contributed to the accident outcome was found. Whilst available radar data was considered to indicate that either the AP was in use and malfunctioning or that the aircraft was being flown manually, the malfunction case was considered unlikely. Also, since it was found that the ADI had been functioning at the time of impact, electrical power was available from at least one of the inverters. Finally, since there was no evidence of either an in-flight breakup or wing separation, it could be concluded that failure to comply with the requirements of the 2007 wing spar AD had not been relevant to the accident. Regulatory Oversight of Private Operators. The limited surveillance regime to which Norjet was subject had not detected some significant non compliances. It was noted that a previous TSB Investigation into a 2007 accident to a Bombardier Global 5000 had raised several concerns about oversight of business aircraft operators and led to a Safety Recommendation that a SMS be made a requirement for such operations. However, no action had been taken on this and the current Investigation had merely confirmed the likelihood that the current approach to private operator oversight is unlikely to support a timely rectification of safety deficiencies and unsafe practices. The Importance of On-Board Flight Recorders. In this Investigation, the lack of any flight data severely limited the opportunity to identify safety deficiencies that may have been significant. Lightweight FDRs are now available for installation in smaller aircraft and can record aircraft flight path data, voice communications and flight deck imagery and are increasingly being fitted voluntarily. The EUROCAE MOPS for such systems defines the minimum specifications for such systems but it is considered significant that Transport Canada currently has neither regulatory requirements nor specifications for them. The formally stated Finding