checks for cracking of the spar cap stems every 600 hours or 600 landings whichever was reached first. No record of compliance with the AD in either respect could be found after its date of issue since when the accident aircraft had flown over 1,000 hours and made over 1,400 landings.. Entries made in the Aircraft Technical Log two days prior to the accident indicated that the ‘HI’ setting for windscreen heating was inoperative with the consequence that flight into known icing conditions was prohibited. This defect was placarded in the flight deck.. Errors were found in the current version of the aircraft weight and balance data sheet and that the effect of these in conjunction with the likely loading of the aircraft would have resulted in the aircraft being outside the permitted flight envelope by either 3.4 or 2.4 inches. However, it was concluded that the effect of this on the flight characteristics of the aircraft during takeoff would have been “negligible”.. The aircraft was not equipped with a Stall Warning System but did have an angle-of-attack indicator which would have provided a visual cue of an impending stall. The only tactile warning of an imminent stall would have been aerodynamic buffeting of the wings which would have been evident as a shuddering or vibration of the airframe.. The aircraft was fitted with an Autopilot but due to the post-crash fire, it was not possible to confirm whether it was fully serviceable prior to impact or whether it was in use.. The Pilot was known to have taken a portable GPS unit and a laptop on board and it was determined that the former was probably positioned near the centre windshield. However, it was not possible to extract any data from it due to damage caused by impact forces and the post-crash fire.. The weather conditions at the time the flight departed were likely to have meant IMC would be encountered during the initial climb with broken cloud at 2300 feet aal and a surface temperature of 7 °C meaning a potential freezing level of around 5000 feet. However, an analysis by Environment Canada indicated that “the weather conditions at Kelowna Airport at the time of the accident did not appear to be conducive to significant ice accretion”. No reference was made as to the relevance of this statement to conditions beyond the vicinity of the airport.. Norjet was operating under the terms of a valid ‘Private Operator Registration Document (PORD)’ allowing it to engage in non-commercial business flight operations. As required by regulation, it had a SMS but it was not possible to establish whether it was effective at identifying and addressing safety risks because the person who administered it was the Pilot of the accident aircraft who was also the Company Operations Manager, Chief Pilot, Safety Officer and the person responsible for maintenance. At the time of the accident, regulatory oversight of operators such as Norjet was entirely reactive.. In analysing the available information about the circumstances