as to Cause was that “the aircraft departed controlled flight for reasons that could not be determined and collided with terrain”. The formally stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If flight data, voice, and video recordings are not available to an investigation, the identification and communication of safety deficiencies to advance transportation safety may be precluded.. If night and instrument proficiency are not adequately maintained, a pilot may not be able to recognize an aircraft upset and respond appropriately, especially during high-workload situations, increasing the risk of loss-of-control accidents.. If weight-and-balance documents are inaccurate, there is a risk that aircraft will be operated outside of the allowable centre-of-gravity specifications, which could affect flight stability and controllability.. If Transport Canada does not effectively oversee private operators, this sector of aviation may be exposed to higher risks that could lead to an accident.. Three Other Findings were also identified: Federal Aviation Administration Airworthiness Directive (AD) 79-12-06 requires that the upper and lower spar caps be inspected for cracking every 600 hours or 600 landings, whichever comes first, unless Cessna Service Bulletin SB57-10 Rev 4 is carried out. A review of the technical records for the aircraft determined that the last record of compliance for AD 79-12-06 was dated 21 December 2007, and had taken place 1062 hours and 1405 landings earlier.. The Investigation determined that there is no formal process in place at Transport Canada to assess and grant an operational approval for single-pilot operations on a Cessna Citation 500.. Given that all components of the aircraft were accounted for at the wreckage site, the Investigation concluded that there was no in-flight breakup or separation of the wing.. Two Safety Concerns were formally highlighted by the Investigation: The Oversight of Private Operators which noted that although the Safety Recommendation made as a result of the TSB Investigation into a 2013 fatal accident to a Sikorsky S76A calling for regular assessments of SMS effectiveness was directed at commercial operators, the same concern applies to private operators.. The provision of lightweight FDR for Private Operators which noted the lack of progress in addressing a 2013 TSB Safety Recommendation advocating such recorders be mandated for commercial operators of smaller aircraft given the likelihood that the extension of such a requirement to private business operators of such aircraft would be similarly beneficial.. One Safety Recommendation was made in respect of the second Safety Concern identified above as follows: that the Canadian Department of Transport require the mandatory installation of lightweight flight recording systems by commercial operators and private operators not currently required to carry these systems. [Recommendation A18-01]. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 28 February 2018 and it was officially released on 26 April 2018.