An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). The aircraft was not equipped with a CVR or an FDR and neither was this a regulatory requirement. Recordings of relevant ATC radar and communications were available. It was found that the pilot had accumulated a total of 3,912 flying hours which included 526 hours on type. He held an ATPL and had obtained the majority of his experience on a variety of single-engine aircraft as well as gaining multi-engine experience as a First Officer on the Cessna 560. He had been employed by the Operator 4½ years prior to the accident and on joining had completed his initial training to fly the Cessna 500 as part of a two pilot crew. He was subsequently trained for single pilot operations on various Cessna models including the Cessna 500 and a corresponding endorsement for such operations on that model was added to his licence in December 2013. However, it was found that he had logged 68 flights in the Norjet Cessna 500 as a single pilot prior to obtaining this endorsement. It was also found that he had completed only two night takeoffs and three night landings in the 6 months prior to the accident and therefore was in breach of the regulatory requirement that for passengers to be carried, a minimum of 5 night take offs and 5 night landings must have been completed in the previous 6 months. It was established that the accident aircraft and pilot had arrived at Kelowna from Calgary at 0830 the same day and had then taken rest in a hotel until returning to the airport at approximately 1830 to operate the return flight which was due to depart three hours later. A Flight Plan was filed accordingly showing that the flight was expected to take about 45 minutes cruising at FL 250. Once the three passengers had arrived and boarded, the aircraft had taxied for runway 34 and was cleared to enter and take off from its intersection with taxiway ‘D’ on a SID which required a straight ahead climb to 4,000 feet QNH with an automatic transfer to Vancouver Centre and a slight track adjustment direct to the Kelowna NDB at that point until radar vectors to the assigned route were given. Kelowna airport is located on a valley floor at an altitude of 1,421 feet and is surrounded by high terrain at elevations exceeding 7,000 feet. After a normal take off, radar showed that when the aircraft was ½ nm beyond the departure end of the runway it was climbing at more than 4,000 fpm through 2,800 feet QNH at a climb angle of approximately 16°. Twenty seconds later, it was 1.2 nm beyond the runway passing 3,800 feet QNH and the rate of climb had reduced to about 1,600 fpm with a measured ground speed of 150 knots and its ground track was continuing to show a slow but continuing deviation to the right. The rate of climb