was then further reduced quite quickly as its climb angle reduced to 2°. By the time it had climbed another thousand feet to 4,800 feet, it had deviated about 13° to the right of the intended track and its rate of climb had reached its maximum of approximately 6,000 fpm with a climb angle of about 22° at the expense of forward speed which produced a measured ground speed of about 145 knots. Passing 5,800 feet and still only 2.7 nm from the departure end of the runway, deviation right of intended track had reached 20°and the rate of climb was down to around 2,000 fpm with a climb angle of about 7°. At 6,000 feet, the first call to Vancouver Centre was made and acknowledged with a confirmation that the flight was radar-identified. The flight was then cleared to make a right turn en route to waypoint MENBO subject to achieving a safe altitude or being above 8,000 feet which was read back. Just over half a minute after this readback and now above 8,000 feet, the right turn was commenced with climb continuing at approximately 3,000 fpm, a typical rate of climb for the aircraft type. The required track, which was 066°M, required a right turn of about 50° but this turn was not completed and at approximately 8,600 feet, the aircraft entered a steeply descending turn to the right which was assessed as “consistent with the characteristics of a spiral dive”. The calculated ground track of the aircraft is reproduced below. Thirteen seconds after the right turn had been commenced, ATC cleared the flight to climb to FL250 but the lack of a reply coupled with the disappearance of the radar return prompted the initiation of a search. About 2½ hours later, the wreckage with signs of a post crash fire having taken place was found in forested terrain at about 3,400 feet. The majority of the aircraft structure had been destroyed and there were no survivors. It was calculated that the aircraft had struck the ground at a high rate of descent in a 67° nose-down attitude on a 025°M heading with its high-energy impact resulting in an approximately 2 foot deep crater. Although both engines were severely damaged, the available evidence indicated that they had been producing significant thrust at impact. The Investigation considered a number of potentially relevant factors: Although the Regulator had issued a Technical Approval for operation of the accident aircraft by a single pilot, no evidence was found that the also-necessary Operational Approval for single pilot operations had ever been assessed and granted and neither could it be determined whether such a request had ever been submitted by Norjet. It was also found that the Regulator had no formal process in place which covered the granting of such an approval for a C500.. In 2007, the FAA had issued an AD which had required either the installation of upper and lower wing spar cap reinforcement angles or the commencement of indefinite