correct rotation rate varies from one aircraft type to another. When transitioning to a new aircraft, pilots may not consciously realise that it will not respond to a pitch input in exactly the same way as their previous aircraft type. On some aircraft types, this pitch response differential is particularly important when the CG is loaded toward its aft limits. This is because an aeroplane in this configuration is more sensitive in pitch, especially during takeoff. A normal amount of nose up elevator input in an aft CG condition is likely to cause the nose to lift off the runway more rapidly and put the tail at risk.. Improper Use of the Flight Director - The flight director (FD) is designed to provide accurate pitch guidance only after the airplane is airborne. An aggressive rotation into the pitch bar at takeoff is not appropriate and may actually rotate the tail onto the ground. Best practice is to rotate to an Attitude.. One or more of the following four Causal Factors have been identified as causal in the majority of tail strike events during landing: Unstabilised Approach - An unstabilised approach, in one form or another, is a factor in virtually every landing tail strike event. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data demonstrates that flight crews who continue an unstabilised approach below 500' AGL will likely never get the approach stabilised. In the flare, the aircraft invariably will have either excessive or insufficient airspeed and quite often will also be beyond the runway touchdown zone. The result is a tendency toward large power and pitch corrections in the flare, often culminating in a substantial nose up pull at touchdown followed by a tail strike. If the nose is coming up rapidly when touchdown occurs and the ground spoilers deploy, the spoilers themselves add an additional nose up pitching force. Also, if the airplane is slow, pulling up the nose in the flare does not materially reduce the sink rate and in fact may increase it.. Excessive Hold Off in the Flare - A common cause of a tail strike during landing is a long flare, often precipitated by a desire to achieve an extremely smooth touch down. A soft touchdown is not essential to a good landing, nor even desired, particularly if the runway is wet and there is risk of Aquaplaning. Trimming the elevator during the flare can contribute to a tail strike. Too much trim can raise the nose and the resulting pitch-up can cause the aircraft to balloon. This is often followed by the pilot instinctively increasing pitch to try to prevent a hard landing. The resulting nose high attitude can lead to a tail strike. A good landing is one made at the right speed and close to the optimum touchdown point at a reasonable rate of descent.. Crosswinds - On many transport jet aircraft it is possible to deploy roll augmenting spoilers whilst still on the ground during takeoff. If a roll input to counter the increased