from the CVR that there had been no recorded discussion between anyone on the flight deck during the event. FDR data showed that the maximum recorded airspeed during the recovery was 429 kts and the maximum recorded vertical acceleration was 1.6g. A post flight inspection of the aircraft found no evidence of damage or deformation of the structure. The Investigation looked at the context in which the flight had taken place in respect of the roles of both the Operator and the maintenance organisations involved as well as at their Regulator. The aircraft involved had routinely reached the end of the lease agreement with Operator Easyjet and had therefore required a combined maintenance check and demonstration flight to confirm its serviceability before being transferred to another lessee. The checks to be carried out, which were agreed between the existing aircraft Operator and the aircraft Owner, were detailed in a Customer Demonstration Flight Schedule (CDFS) which had been developed by the Operator. The Investigation concluded that, overall,“the processes involved in developing and undertaking check flights appear to have been conducted on a largely informal basis by the Operator and there is no evidence that they were subject to audit, either internally or by the CAA.” A comparison of the AMM with the Operator’s CDFS identified a number of differences. The most significant of these in respect of the incident being investigated related to the AMM procedure requiring the selection of the flight deck switches for both hydraulic systems be placed directly to the standby rudder position during the test involved. This action removes hydraulic power to the flying controls except the rudder which requires control forces that are too great for manual control. In contrast, the Operator CDFS called for the switches to be selected to the off position, as part of an additional, unrelated test and did not then require them to be selected to the standby rudder position prior to conducting the manual reversion test, so that the rudder was inoperable by the flight crew during the incident. The commander of the incident flight stated that he found “the AMM to be poorly constructed and difficult to follow”. He also considered that the Operator’s own check schedule, the CDFS, which he had developed, satisfactorily covered the requirements of the flight control manual reversion check and therefore chose not to use the AMM, either before or during the incident flight check. The Investigation noted that whilst the extent of system testing in any particular Customer Demonstration Flight would be likely to vary, “it is likely that the aircraft will be flown with systems deliberately degraded, situations unfamiliar to most pilots”. In some cases, demonstrations may duplicate production flight testing which is carried out by specially trained test pilots. However, the development by Operators of their own generic demonstration flight schedules, which are then likely to be flown by pilots without any formal flight test qualifications, was recognised as having become widespread . In the absence of official access to manufacturer’s