An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Full Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was available for the Investigation. It was established that a post-maintenance function flight was being carried out by a flight crew from the Aircraft Operator accompanied in the flight deck by two maintenance personnel observing. The aircraft commander as PF was found to have accumulated considerable previous experience of function flights for the Operator and, in the course of a large number of these, had been involved in two previous events where abnormal situations had developed during planned system testing and been resolved without significant consequences. He was also found to be effectively in charge of all aspects of the Operator’s check flight programme. Selection of Co-Pilots for Check Flights was found to be routinely done informally by “selecting from a pool of First Officers who had volunteered and been deemed suitable” and there were no required qualifications or special training for the role. The Investigation also found that one of the two Observers present in the flight deck throughout the incident flight had occupied the supernumerary crew seat and the other had sat on a storage cupboard behind the aircraft commander’s seat and had thus not been restrained by a safety harness. The system test being carried out at the time of the occurrence was a flight control manual reversion check, a commonly used informal description of ‘elevator power-off flight test’ detailed in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual. During this check, carried out with all hydraulic assistance removed from the primary flying controls, the aircraft pitched rapidly nose down and, since it was impossible to retain pitch control manually, the commander decided to abandon the check and reinstate the hydraulics. As a prelude to this action, he intentionally rolled the aircraft left to 70° bank angle before releasing the controls and calling for the First Officer to re-engage the flight control switches. However, this did not occur and the CVR evidence was found to indicate that “at this point there was confusion between the two pilots”. Speed brakes had been selected but had not deployed because all hydraulic power had remained off. The bank angle increased to a maximum of 91° before the wings were rolled back towards level and an attempt was made arrest the rate of descent which had reached a maximum of 20,000 fpm at around FL110 with the aircraft pitched 30° nose-down. Airspeed continued to increase and, as the rate of descent started to decrease, the PF made a PAN call to ATC which coincided with the activation of the aural overspeed warning which continued for the next 48 seconds. The aircraft eventually recovered from the dive at about 5,600 ft QNH having entered a layer of cloud. The pilots reviewed the situation and selected the hydraulic system switches for the flight controls, which had remained off throughout the excursion, back to their normal ‘on’ position and the control forces returned to normal. It was noted