flight schedules, airworthiness flight test schedules formerly used in the UK for mandatory air tests were noted as having provided a popular basis where they exist, but the Investigation concluded that: “In this incident, the operator was using an out-of-date document obtained unofficially and not subject to any control. The schedule appears to have been produced by one individual and it is unclear what level of scrutiny was applied. It is apparent, however, that elements were not clearly understood, as demonstrated by the switching conducted prior to the test. This switching left the rudder unpowered. The significance of doing so was that any subsequent rolling manoeuvre was reliant on the ailerons alone, which is less effective.” This particular difference was identified as of significance when considered against advice given in the version of the UK CAA “Check Flight Handbook” extant at the time of the incident, which recommended the generic action of banking the aircraft to prevent unusually high or low pitch manoeuvres developing. In addition, the switching procedure used in the CDFS had also resulted in the main trim being unavailable for use during recovery from any pitch upset, whereas main trim use is included in relevant sections of both the applicable Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) and Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) and in the Boeing Flight Crew Training Manual. Since it was the procedure used for the system test which led to the incident, the issue of non use of relevant AMM guidance during function flights was examined by the Investigation. It was considered of significance that in this case, the commander chose not to use the AMM and gave his main reason for this “that he found the layout of the AMM schedule unclear”. This lack of clarity was seen to stem from the inclusion of engineering information which may not be directly relevant to the pilot undertaking the test. The fact that there had been a minor, but inappropriate adjustmemt of the elevator trim prior to the Incident Flight was attributed to the failure of the aircraft commander on the previous flight of the aircraft which was prior to maintenance input(which was the same pilot who was in command of the incident flight) to record his remarks on elevator trim servicablity in the aircraft Techninal Log]] but had instead communicated them to maintenance personnel verbally. The prevalence of incidents during function flights conducted by Operators, including the loss of an Airbus A320 in November 2008 which was still under investigation by the French BEA when this AAIB Final Report was prepared but was subsequently published - see the Official Final Report- and another event on an Easyjet Boeing 737 function flight which occurred in May 2009, was noted as evidence that many of the wider issues raised by the investigated incident were not unique to it. A series of Safety Actions taken during the Investigation, which mostly followed the issue of the AAIB Special Bulletin in March 2009, were noted, including amendment and reissue of the UK