option by the First Officer trying to resolve the lack of an ILS display due to his mis-tuned NAV2 box. This would have led the Captain to believe that "he was one mile closer to the runway (than he was), which could have made him increase their descent rate sharply to capture the glide slope". It was, though, "not known why the Captain decided to make the approach without the aid of the glide slope and to go by distances and altitudes only". However, it was considered that the circumstantially evident lack of sighting of terrain prior to impact could have been attributed to descent into a fog bank in the final stages. Noting that the operator had a valid AOC and an AESA-approved Operations Manual, the Investigation noted that: The approved Operations Manual was neither wholly compliant with EU-OPS nor appropriate to the operations being conducted. In particular, the aircraft operated were able to be flown by a single pilot but the AIRNOR Operations Manual (Type) Volume (Part B) was found to be a simple copy of the generic AFM. The company did not have any Standard Operating Procedures (Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)) and although there were two pilots on board the accident flight as required by the applicable passenger transport regulations, no evidence was found of any trained or documented distinction between the duties of the PF and those of the PM nor of any procedures to ensure coordination of their actions.. Although there was no documented evidence that the aircraft had not been airworthy, it was concluded that at the time of the accident, "the aircraft had several (potentially relevant) deficiencies, though their existence and resolution by maintenance could not be confirmed through the entries made by crews in the log book". It was noted that authorisations held by the 54 year-old Technician who maintained the accident aircraft included all those which would be expected except that for avionics maintenance privileges (the B2 category). The effect of this was that any avionics defect recorded in the aircraft Technical Log at base would ground the aircraft pending qualified assistance.. The accident flight crew had been "on call" between 1300 and 2300 local time and had been notified of the flying duty required 20 minutes prior to the end of the on-call period. Despite being in accordance with the prevailing flight time limitations, it was noted that the sequence of flights to follow would "take place at a time of day more associated with sleep" and could have "contributed to an increased sensation of fatigue and drowsiness". In particular, it was considered that the final sector leading to the accident "may have been characterised by excessive fatigue....in combination with the complacency caused by arriving at their destination" and noted that "crew fatigue studies have shown a propensity toward more errors under these circumstances".. Although in the circumstances it would not have made any difference, the delay on the part of ATC in formally activating the 'Alert Phase' for an