overdue aircraft was noted - this being required "within 5 minutes after the expected landing time". The formally documented Causes and Contributory Factors identified by the Investigation were as follows: Causes: The ultimate cause of the accident could not be determined. In light of the hypothesis considered in the analysis, the most likely scenario is that the crew made a non-standard precision approach in manual based primarily on distances. The ILS frequency set incorrectly in the first officer’s equipment and the faulty position indicated on the DME switch would have resulted in the distance being shown on the captain’s HSI as corresponding to the VOR and not to the runway threshold. The crew shortened the approach manoeuvre and proceeded to a point by which the aircraft should already have been established on the localiser, thus increasing the crew’s workload. The crew then probably lost visual contact with the ground when the aircraft entered a fog bank in the valleys near the airport and did not realise they were making an approach to the VOR and not to the runway. Contributing Factors: The lack of operational procedures for an aircraft authorised to be operated by a single pilot (to be) operated by a crew with two members.. The overall condition of the aircraft and the instruments and the crew’s mistrust of the onboard instruments.. The fatigue built up over the course of working at a time when they should have been sleeping after an unplanned duty period.. The concern with having to divert to the alternate without sufficient fuel combined with the complacency arising from finally reaching their destination.. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that AIRNOR develop a specific plan that would ensure that the crews annotate all the discrepancies of the aircraft in the Aircraft Technical Log as soon as they are detected. (REC 09/15). that AESA revise its supervisory policies for both operations (Safety of National Aircraft Program - SANA) and aircraft (Aircraft Continuing Airworthiness Monitoring - ACAM) to establish criteria and define procedures for inspections in line with the objectives that are actually being pursued in terms of safety standards. (REC 10/15). that AIRNOR establish the operational procedures required to operate in each of its aircraft based on the equipment specific to each and using clear and common criteria for weather conditions, fuel planning and stabilized approaches (REC 11/15). that AESA take the initiative so as to establish as mandatory, following international guidance in ICAO Annex 10, for all operators to register the data from ELTs. (REC 12/15). that DGAC, at the initiative of AESA, establish as mandatory, following international guidance in ICAO Annex 10, for all operators the registration of the data from ELT. (REC 33/15). that ENAIRE (the ANSP, formerly AENA) establish the procedures needed to remind control personnel during refresher training of the emergency phase and of the obligation to monitor the operation of aircraft operating in and around the airport. (REC 13/15). The Final Report was