mile fix for the runway 17 ILS. After descent clearances from APP, the crew were transferred to TWR and, after advising they were en route to a 10 mile final for Runway 17, the aircraft was cleared to land with the wind given as calm. Three minutes later, the COAPAS-SARSA system detected an ELT activation near the airport. On being notified of this 16 minutes later and being unable to contact the aircraft, the TWR controller asked airport operations to check to see if the aircraft was at its usual parking position and after being advised that it was not, activated the emergency procedure. The Airport RFFS subsequently located the wreckage at an elevation of 1200 feet along the extended centreline of the runway 1 nm before the 17 threshold and about 200 metres prior to the on-track Santiago (STG) DVOR/DME. The Santiago airport weather office advised that around the time of the accident, there had been "intervals of reduced visibility caused by fog banks" and that this was a very common occurrence with "Fog banks created in the valleys around the airport coming into visual range at various times and from different directions" whilst usually being "confined to the bottoms of neighbouring valleys and not visible from the airport until they move in one direction or another", often rapidly. The RVR at the 17 threshold at the time of the accident was 1500 metres and about to drop below Cat 1 ILS limits and remain there to and through sunrise one hour later. The available radar trace of the approach flown was examined and it was found that: Although cleared to a 10 mile fix, the aircraft flew to a 6 mile fix which is co-incident with the FAF.. having joined the ILS LOC from below the GS, the aircraft never captured the GS but instead had remained below it and made a descent at a similar angle but remaining about 300 feet below it. This vertical profile led to the position of the VOR rather than to the runway TDZ.. The ILS procedure required a go around to be made if the required visual reference had not been acquired by a Cat B aircraft by 1406 feet QNH which would have been 1.6nm before the VOR.. This point would have been equivalent to 0.6nm on the ILS DME which was beyond the point where ground impact occurred.. rates of descent until 2nm from the runway were about twice those which would be expected for a stabilised approach and should have led to a go around.. The Investigation considered the above in conjunction with other information, including the finding that the First Officer's ILS frequency had been wrongly set and that the LOC flag on his HSI was defective and permanently in view. It was concluded that the most likely explanation for the premature descent was that the VOR DME instead of the ILS DME had been put on the Captain's HSI by the inadvertent activation of the 'HOLD'