recovery. It was noted that "ATR is considering design changes to the lateral control system for current and future ATR airplanes that will reduce the susceptibility to flow separation-induced aileron hinge moment reversals" and that any such changes "could minimize the reliance on the changes to flight operations and pilot training that have already been mandated". It was also found that both the French DGAC and the FAA had failed to require ATR "to provide documentation of known undesirable post-Stall Protection System (SPS) flight characteristics" and that this had "contributed to their failure to identify and correct, or otherwise properly address" the abnormal aileron behaviour now evidenced "early in the history of ATR icing incidents" of which a number were identified by the Investigation. Other Findings included the following: Because the DGAC did not require ATR, and ATR did not provide to the operators of its airplanes, information that specifically alerted flight crews to the fact that encounters with freezing rain could result in sudden autopilot disconnects, aileron hinge moment reversals, and rapid roll excursions, or guidance on how to cope with these events, the crew of the accident flight had no reason to expect that the icing conditions they were encountering would cause the sudden onset of an aileron hinge moment reversal, autopilot disconnect and loss of aileron control.. Had ice accumulated on the wing leading edges so as to burden the ice protection system, or if the crew had been able to observe the ridge of ice building behind the deice boots or otherwise been provided with a means of determining that an unsafe condition was developing from holding in those icing conditions, it is probable that the crew would have exited the conditions.. The Probable Cause of the Accident was finally determined as: "The loss of control, attributed to a sudden and unexpected aileron hinge moment reversal, that occurred after a ridge of ice accreted beyond the deice boots while the airplane was in a holding pattern during which it intermittently encountered supercooled cloud and drizzle/rain drops, the size and water content of which exceeded those described in the icing certification envelope. The airplane was susceptible to this loss of control and the crew was unable to recover." Five Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: the inadequate oversight of the ATR 42 and 72 by the French Directorate General for Civil Aviation (DGAC) and its failure to take the necessary corrective action to ensure continued airworthiness in icing conditions. the failure of the DGAC to provide the FAA with timely airworthiness information developed from previous ATR incidents and accidents in icing conditions. the failure of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to ensure that aircraft icing certification requirements, operational requirements for flight into icing conditions, and FAA-published aircraft icing information adequately accounted for the hazards that can result from flight in freezing rain. the inadequate oversight of the ATR 42 and 72 by the FAA (to the extent necessary) to ensure continued airworthiness in icing conditions. the