FAA should revise FAA Order 7210.3, “Facility Operation and Administration,” Chapter 3, “Facility Equipment,” Section 4, “Recorders,” paragraph 3-41, “Assignment of Recorder Channels,” to include the Air Traffic Control System Command Center facility, listing the recorded positions and their priority. (A-95-106). A total of 26 further Safety Recommendation were made upon the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the FAA should direct Principal Operations Inspectors (POIs) to ensure that all 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 121 air carriers require their dispatchers to provide all pertinent information, including airman’s meteorological information (AIRMETs) and Center Weather Advisories (CWAs), to flight crews for pre-flight and in-flight planning purposes. (A-96-48). that the FAA should require that Hazardous In-flight Weather Advisory Service (HIWAS) broadcasts consistently include all pertinent information contained in weather reports and forecasts, including in-flight weather advisories, airman’ s meteorological information (AIRMETs), significant meteorological information (SIGMETs), and Center Weather Advisories (CWA’s). (A-96-49). that the FAA should encourage Principal Operations Inspectors (POIs) and operators to re-emphasize to pilots that Hazardous In-flight Weather Advisory Service (HIWAS) is a source of timely weather information and should be used whenever they are operating in or near areas of potentially hazardous weather conditions. (A-96-50). that the FAA should revise the existing aircraft icing intensity reporting criteria (as defined in the Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM) and other Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) literature) by including nomenclature that is related to specific types of aircraft, and that is in logical agreement with existing Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs). (A-96-51). that the FAA should publish the definition of the phrase “icing in precipitation” in the appropriate aeronautical publications, emphasizing that the condition may exist both near the ground and at altitude. (A-96-52). that the FAA should continue to sponsor the development of methods to produce weather forecasts that both define specific locations of atmospheric icing conditions (including freezing drizzle and freezing rain) and produce short-range forecasts (“nowcasts”) that identify icing conditions for a specific geographic area with a valid time of 2 hours or less. (A-96-53). that the FAA should revise the icing criteria published in 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 23 and 25, in light of both recent research into aircraft ice accretion under varying conditions of liquid water content, drop size distribution, and temperature, and recent developments in both the design and use of aircraft. Also, expand the Appendix C icing certification envelope to include freezing drizzle/freezing rain and mixed water/ice crystal conditions, as necessary. (A-96-54) (this supersedes A-81-116 and A-81-118). that the FAA should revise the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAILs) icing certification requirements and advisory material to specify the numerical methods to be used in determining median volumetric diameter (MVD) and liquid water content (LWC) during certification tests. (A-96-55). that the FAA should revise the icing certification testing regulation to ensure that airplanes are properly tested for all conditions in which they are authorized to operate, or are otherwise shown to be capable of safe flight into such conditions. If safe operations cannot be demonstrated