Weather Advisories (CWAs) be included and considered in the flight crew’s pre-flight planning process. (A-96-67). that the FAA should revise FAA Order 7110.65, “Air Traffic Control,” Chapter 2, “General Control,” Section 6, “Weather Information,” paragraph 2-6-3, “PIREP” Information, to include freezing drizzle and freezing rain. Additionally, these conditions should be clearly defined in the Pilot/Controller Glossary. (A-96-68). that the FAA should conduct or sponsor research and development of on-board aircraft ice protection and detection systems that will detect and alert flight crews when the airplane is encountering freezing drizzle and freezing rain and accreting resultant ice. (A-96-69). that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration should develop methods to produce weather forecasts that both define specific locations of atmospheric icing conditions (including freezing drizzle and freezing rain), and that produce short range forecasts (“nowcasts”) that identify icing conditions for a specific geographic area with a valid time of 2 hours or less. Ensure the timely dissemination of all significant findings to the aviation community in an appropriate manner. (A-96-70). that American Eagle should require Dispatchers to include in the flight release airman’s meteorological information (AIRMETs) and center weather advisories (CWAs) that are pertinent to the route of flight so that flight crews can consider this information in their pre-flight and in-flight decisions. (A-96-71). that American Eagle should encourage Captains to observe a “sterile cockpit” environment when an airplane is holding, regardless of altitude, in meteorological conditions such as convective areas or icing conditions, that have the potential to demand significant attention of a flight crew. (A-96-72). that American Eagle should conduct a procedural audit to eliminate existing conflicts in guidance and procedures between the aircraft Flight Operations Manuals and other published material. (A-96-73). The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted by the NTSB on 9 July 1996. The dissenting opinions of the French BEA on a wide range of issues in the Report including factual matters, the analysis made thereon and the Conclusions documented were issued as a separate document. However, after publication of the Report, the NTSB received 'Petitions for Reconsideration' of it from the French DGAC (on 29 November 1996) and from the aircraft manufacturer ATR (on 22 September 1999) which made essentially similar points. Comments in support of the DGAC position from the FAA were communicated on 28 May 1998. After review of these petitions and the comments made in respect of them by the FAA and other qualified parties, the Board, "partially granted" them and on 13 September 2002 published their Response which concluded with the adoption by the Board of revisions to the text of 7 of the 43 original 'Findings', revisions to the text of the Probable Cause Statement and the removal of two paragraphs from Section 1 of the Report. The Probable Cause and Contributory Factors reproduced above and the summary provided prior to this are respectively taken from /based upon the revised version of the Final Report. The changes adopted are detailed at the end of the 'Response' document referenced above and