inadequate response of ATR to the continued occurrence of ATR 42 icing/roll upsets which, in conjunction with information learned about aileron control difficulties during the certification and development of the ATR 42 and 72, should have prompted additional research and the creation of updated airplane flight manuals, flight crew operating manuals and training programs related to operation of the ATR 42 and 72 in such icing conditions.. During the course of the Investigation, on 7 November 1994, the following 5 Safety Recommendations were made: that the FAA should conduct a special certification review of the ATR 42 and ATR 72 airplanes, including flight tests and/or wind tunnel tests, to determine the aileron hinge moment characteristics of the airplanes operating with different airspeeds and configurations during ice accumulation and with varying angles of attack following ice accretion. As a result of the review, require modifications as necessary to assure satisfactory flying qualities and control system stability in icing conditions. (A-94-181). that the FAA should prohibit the intentional operation of ATR 42 and ATR 72 airplane in known or reported icing conditions until the effect of upper wing surface ice on the flying qualities and aileron hinge moment characteristics are examined further as recommended in A-94-181 and it is determined that the airplane exhibits satisfactory flight characteristics. (A-94-182). that the FAA should issue a general notice to ATC personnel to provide expedited service to ATR 42 and ATR 72 pilots who request route, altitude or airspeed deviations to avoid icing conditions. Waive the 175 knot holding speed restriction for ATR 42 and ATR 72 airplanes pending acceptable outcome of the special certification effort. (A-94-183). that the FAA should provide guidance and direction to pilots of ATR 42 and ATR 72 airplanes in the event of inadvertent encounter with icing conditions by the following actions: (1) define optimum airplane configuration and speed information; (2) prohibit the use of autopilot; (3) require the monitoring of lateral control forces; (4) and define a positive procedure for reducing angle of attack. (A-94-184). that the FAA should caution pilots of ATR 42 and ATR 72 airplanes that rapid descents at low altitude or during landing approaches or other deviations from prescribed operating procedures are not an acceptable means of minimizing exposure to icing conditions. (A-94-185). Later during Investigation, on 6 November 1995, the following 4 Safety Recommendations were made: that the FAA should require the Air Traffic Control System Command Center to retain all flow control-related facility documents for 15 days, regardless of title, name or form number, for reconstruction purposes. (A-95-103). that the FAA should develop a list of documents to be completed by the Air Traffic Control System Command Center personnel in the event of an incident or accident. (A-95-104). that the FAA should revise Order 8020.11, “Aircraft Accident and Incident Notification, Investigation and Reporting,” to include the Air Traffic Control System Command Center (DCC) facility. Ensure that the DCC facility is assigned specific requirements to be included in an accident/incident package. (A-95-105). that the