An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR were both recovered from the wreckage and their data were successfully downloaded. Examination of the wreckage indicated that the aircraft had impacted open ground partially inverted and in a nose down left wing low attitude. The disposition of the wreckage in combination with the available recorded data indicated that an EGPWS 'PULL UP' warning had been annunciated and that both pilots had seen the ground shortly before impact. In response to their recognition of close proximity to the ground and the high rate of descent of the aircraft, they had "made a nose-up elevator input that, combined with the high airspeed (about 115 KIAS above Vmo) had resulted in excessive wing loading and structural failure of the outboard sections of the wings". It was established that during the prior 39 minute hold at 10,000 feet, the crew had selected 15ยบ flap in response to the abnormally high pitch attitude which prevailed and that this had resulted in a reduction in the Angle of Attack (AOA) from 5ยบ to approximately 0ยบ - although this flight parameter was not displayed to the crew. During the hold, which had been in IMC at a marginally sub-zero temperature, airframe de-icing had been selected on and the pilots had made periodic checks on the extent of visible ice accretion on the wings without observing anything notable in that respect. However, it was concluded that although there had been no prior forecast of abnormally significant icing conditions or PIREPS mentioning this from other aircraft in the general area, the accident aircraft had, whilst in the hold, been accreting ice to the upper wing surface aft of the area kept clear by the leading edge pneumatic de-icing boots. The general difficulty in assessing the relevance of the presence or absence of PIREPS from other aircraft types was noted. Soon after clearance to descend had been received and descent had been commenced, the flaps were retracted to zero. This action was followed immediately by un-commanded disconnect of the AP and the beginning of a series of un-commanded rolls to both right and left. A very high rate of descent developed and impact occurred just over 20 seconds after the AP disconnect. During this period out of control, it was found from the recorded data that the aircraft had completed one full 360ยบ roll to the right and otherwise remained unstable in roll throughout. It was concluded that slight unevenness in the ice accretion on the wing upper surfaces aft of the leading edge and ahead of ailerons towards each wing tip had, when the flaps were retracted and AoA had consequently increased, caused differential airflow separation and disturbed the normally balanced aileron hinge moments so as to cause sudden self-deflection. The Captain and First Officer had gained their first airline employment as Simmons' Airlines First Officers in 1987 and 1989 respectively, with the Captain having been promoted to that rank whilst flying the Shorts 360 and