by the manufacturer, operational limitations should be imposed to prohibit flight in such conditions and flight crews should be provided with the means to positively determine when they are in icing conditions that exceed the limits for aircraft certification. (A-96-56). that the FAA should require all aircraft manufacturers to provide, as part of the certification criteria, information to the FAA and operators about any known undesirable characteristics of flight beyond the protected (stall system and related shaker/pusher) flight regime. (A-96-57). that the FAA should develop an icing certification test procedure similar to the tail plane icing pushover test to determine the susceptibility of airplanes to aileron hinge moment reversals in the clean and iced-wing conditions. Revise 14 CFR Parts 23 and 25 icing certification requirements to include such a test. (A-96-58). that the FAA should encourage ATR to test the newly developed lateral control system design changes and upon verification of the improved or corrected hinge moment reversal / un-commanded aileron deflection problem, require these design changes on all new and existing ATR airplanes. (A-96-59). that the FAA should revise 14 CFR Parts 91.527 and 135.227 to ensure that the regulations are compatible with the published definition of severe icing, and to eliminate the implied authorization of flight into severe icing conditions for aircraft certified for flight in such conditions. (A-96-60). that the FAA should require all principal operations inspectors (POIs) of 14 CFR Part 121 and 135 operators to ensure that training programs include information about all icing conditions, including flight into freezing drizzle/freezing rain conditions. (A-96-61). that the FAA should develop an organizational structure and a communications system that will enable the Aircraft Evaluation Group (AEG) to obtain and record all domestic and foreign aircraft and parts/systems manufacturers’ reports and analyses concerning incidents and accidents involving aircraft types operated in the United States, and ensure that the information is collected in a timely manner for effective AEG monitoring of the continued airworthiness of aircraft. (A-96-62). that the FAA should review and revise, as necessary, the manner in which the FAA monitors a foreign airworthiness authority’s compliance with U.S. type certification requirements under the Bilateral Airworthiness agreement (BAA). (A-96-63). that the FAA should establish policies and procedures to ensure that all pertinent information is received, including the manufacturer’s analysis of incidents, accidents or other airworthiness issues, from the exporting country’s airworthiness authority so that the FAA can monitor and ensure the continued airworthiness of airplanes certified under the Bilateral Airworthiness Agreement (BAA). (A-96-64). that the FAA should evaluate the need to require a sterile cockpit environment for airplanes holding in such weather conditions as icing and convective activity, regardless of altitude. (A-96-65). that the FAA should amend the Federal Aviation Regulations to require operators to provide standardized training that adequately addresses the recovery from unusual events, including extreme flight attitudes in large, transport category airplanes. (A-96-66). that the FAA should revise FAA Order 8400.10, Chapter 7, Section 2, paragraph 1423 (Operational Requirements - Flight crews) to specify that Center