and always performed as a group. Triggers: Events or actions that initiate action blocks. Events or actions that initiate action blocks. Action patterns: Flight deck panel scanning sequences or patterns supporting the flow and sequence of action blocks. Flight deck panel scanning sequences or patterns supporting the flow and sequence of action blocks. Standard calls: Standard phraseology and terms used for effective crew communication. Standard phraseology and terms used for effective crew communication. Rules for effective task sharing apply to any flight phase but are particularly important in the high-workload phases associated with takeoff, departure, climb and approach and landing. Two important universal principles or rules are: The pilot flying (PF) is responsible for controlling the vertical and horizontal flight paths and for energy management by either: Supervising the autopilot (AP) vertical and lateral guidance and the autothrottle/autothrust operation. This necessitates awareness of selected guidance targets, modes being armed or engaged, and mode changes through mode transitions and reversions. Hand flying the aircraft with or without flight director (FD) guidance and with or without autothrottle/autothrust assistance. Supervising the autopilot (AP) vertical and lateral guidance and the autothrottle/autothrust operation. This necessitates awareness of selected guidance targets, modes being armed or engaged, and mode changes through mode transitions and reversions.. Hand flying the aircraft with or without flight director (FD) guidance and with or without autothrottle/autothrust assistance. The non-flying pilot has a dual role as pilot not flying (PNF) and pilot monitoring (PM). He or she is responsible for systems-related and monitoring tasks, and for performing the actions requested by the PF, including: Radio communications Systems selection and configuration AP/FD and flight management system (FMS) mode selections and target entries when the PF is hand flying the aircraft Monitoring the status of the aircraft (e.g., configuration, attitude, speed, trajectory) Performing the actions called for by electronic and paper checklists in abnormal and emergency conditions Monitoring the PF to provide effective backup, as required (e.g., standard calls, excessive-deviation callouts). Radio communications. Systems selection and configuration. AP/FD and flight management system (FMS) mode selections and target entries when the PF is hand flying the aircraft. Monitoring the status of the aircraft (e.g., configuration, attitude, speed, trajectory). Performing the actions called for by electronic and paper checklists in abnormal and emergency conditions. Monitoring the PF to provide effective backup, as required (e.g., standard calls, excessive-deviation callouts). The sterile cockpit rule, discussed in the briefing note Sterile Flight Deck, is an important SOP that may be mandated by operational authorities or adopted in accordance with company policy. The rule specifically prohibits crewmembers from performing nonessential duties or activities while the aircraft is involved in taxi, takeoff, landing and all other flight operations conducted below 10,000 feet, except cruise flight. Manufacturers encourage adherence to the sterile cockpit rule, regardless of applicable national requirements. The sterile cockpit rule and the silent cockpit concept are often confused. There is even the mistaken belief that they refer to the same operating policy. When adhering to a silent cockpit policy, standard