SOPs should identify and describe the standard tasks and duties of a flight crew for each flight phase, including what to do and when to do it.. SOPs should be simple, clear, concise and prescriptive. SOPs should be designed to be accomplished without an aid to recall, such as a checklist. Critical tasks (e.g., selections of systems, changes to aircraft configuration), however, must also include a cross-check for errors through use of normal checklists according to the phase of flight. The briefing note Normal Checklists provides a detailed overview of the scope and use of normal checklists.. SOPs should be designed to be accomplished without an aid to recall, such as a checklist. Critical tasks (e.g., selections of systems, changes to aircraft configuration), however, must also include a cross-check for errors through use of normal checklists according to the phase of flight. The briefing note Normal Checklists provides a detailed overview of the scope and use of normal checklists. SOPs (including standard calls) should provide the basis for crew standardization and establish a working environment conducive to enhanced and efficient crew communication and coordination.. SOPs should be supplemented as needed by relevant information on specific operating techniques (e.g., adverse weather operation) and by operational recommendations for specific types of operations (e.g., operations on wet or contaminated runways, operations in extended operations Extended Range Twin Engine Operation areas, operations in reduced vertical separation minimum (Reduced Vertical Separation Minima (RVSM)) airspace).. SOPs should assume that all aircraft systems are operating in an acceptable manner and that all automatic functions are used as intended. SOPs are for the vast majority of situations in which nothing related to the flight is out of the ordinary range of conditions encountered in the airline’s operations.. A system may be partially or totally inoperative in accordance with a company’s minimum equipment list (MEL)/dispatch deviation guide (DDG) without affecting the SOPs. Dispatch with an acceptable loss of redundancy or function (e.g., an inoperative auxiliary power unit is a “standard” condition as envisioned by SOPs. SOPs should address and emphasize critical and recurring operational topics, including: Task sharing (who should do). Optimum use of automation (how to use). Operations golden rules. Standards calls (what to expect, what to observe). Use of normal checklists. Approach and go-around briefings. Altimeter setting and cross-check procedures. Use of the radio altimeter. Descent profile management. Energy management. Terrain awareness. Threat and hazard awareness. Elements of a stabilized approach and approach gates. Approach procedures and techniques for various types of approaches. Landing and braking techniques for various types of runway and wind conditions. Readiness and commitment to go around (e.g., ground-proximity warning system (GPWS) warning, unstabilized approach, bounce recovery).. SOPs should contain safeguards in order to minimize the potential for inadvertent deviation from procedures, particularly when operating under abnormal or emergency conditions or after interruptions or distractions. Safeguards include: Action blocks: A collection of actions to be accomplished in sequence and always performed as a group. A collection of actions to be accomplished in sequence