SOPs should be designed to be accomplished without an aid to recall, such as a checklist. Critical tasks (e.g., selections of systems, changes to aircraft configuration), however, must also include a cross-check for errors through use of normal checklists according to the phase of flight. The briefing note Normal Checklists provides a detailed overview of the scope and use of normal checklists. A system may be partially or totally inoperative in accordance with a company’s minimum equipment list (MEL)/dispatch deviation guide (DDG) without affecting the SOPs. Dispatch with an acceptable loss of redundancy or function (e.g., an inoperative auxiliary power unit is a “standard” condition as envisioned by SOPs. SOPs should address and emphasize critical and recurring operational topics, including: SOPs should contain safeguards in order to minimize the potential for inadvertent deviation from procedures, particularly when operating under abnormal or emergency conditions or after interruptions or distractions. Safeguards include: Rules for effective task sharing apply to any flight phase but are particularly important in the high-workload phases associated with takeoff, departure, climb and approach and landing. Two important universal principles or rules are: The sterile cockpit rule, discussed in the briefing note Sterile Flight Deck, is an important SOP that may be mandated by operational authorities or adopted in accordance with company policy. The rule specifically prohibits crewmembers from performing nonessential duties or activities while the aircraft is involved in taxi, takeoff, landing and all other flight operations conducted below 10,000 feet, except cruise flight. Manufacturers encourage adherence to the sterile cockpit rule, regardless of applicable national requirements. The sterile cockpit rule and the silent cockpit concept are often confused. There is even the mistaken belief that they refer to the same operating policy. When adhering to a silent cockpit policy, standard calls are minimized. Autopilot mode selections and target entries, flight mode annunciator changes and target confirmations on the primary flight display (PFD) and navigation display (ND) are not announced aloud but are included by procedure in the instrument scan. Manufacturers acknowledge that variations may exist in airline operating policies, but they encourage operators to adopt and adhere to a standard calls policy, as defined in the briefing note Standard Calls. With higher levels of automation available on modern aircraft, flight crews are offered an increasing number of options and strategies to choose among for accomplishing flight tasks. Company SOPs should accurately define the automation options and strategies selected by the airline for various flight phases and for various types of approaches. The briefing note Automated Cockpit Guidelines provides expanded information on the use of the AP/FD, autothrottle/autothrust and FMS.