The event was classified as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). It was noted that the Captain had a total of 18,042 flying hours including 7,509 hours on type and that the First Officer had a total of 11,975 flying hours including 7,815 hours on type. It was established that after the aircraft had flown over the central part of the city of Osaka just under 20 minutes after taking off from Kansai, reports were received that a large panel in KLM colours had fallen from the sky and hit a vehicle being driven along a city street. The location of this collision was about 1½ nm south east of the aircraft track. Examination of the recovered panel established that despite its size - it was approximately 1.07 metres x 1.08 metres - it only weighed 4.3 kg because it had a honeycomb sandwich structure made of glass reinforced plastic (GRP). Later in the day, KLM in Amsterdam were sent a photograph of the detached panel and their Operations Control Centre contacted flight KL867 to advise its crew that it had probably come from their aircraft. After running some system checks which showed nothing was malfunctioning, the flight was completed uneventfully as planned. The panel, identified as 198AR, the right aft wing-to-body fairing, was found to be missing from the aircraft when it arrived in Amsterdam. It was noted that the detached panel was supposed to have been secured to the aircraft with seven screws and thirty bolts and, in and the panel’s forward upper corner where limited space between the fuselage precluded the use of fasteners, by attachment to a supporting bracket. This bracket also allowed that corner of the panel to be mounted under a preload so that when fitted, it would lay fully flush with the adjacent panels. It was evident that this supporting bracket had failed under stress but it was stated that no sign of anything untoward in its vicinity had been noted during the pre flight external inspection carried out by a qualified ground engineer. It was found that routine maintenance procedures required the 198R panel to be periodically removed to allow visual inspection of the aircraft structure and that this had last been done in 2015. The collective findings led to the conclusion that the released panel had not been re-fitted flush with the fuselage because the bracket had become distorted creating a gap between the forward upper corner of the panel and the fuselage which had allowed air to flow in behind the panel. The fact that a protective film had begun to peel off the inboard side of the forward upper corner of the support panel was considered to be evidence for such an airflow. Marks indicating fatigue fracture were left on the broken bracket’s fracture surfaces and it was considered probable that this fracture had been initiated by airflow inside the panel that was in addition to the load caused