by ordinary aerodynamic force from outside. This airflow would then have placed an excessive load on both the bracket and the bolts and eventually created a repetitive bending stress on the support bracket flanges and finally to the observed fatigue fracture. Once the bracket had failed, an even larger gap would have formed between the forward upper corner of the support panel and the fuselage allowing the pressure of inflowing air and increasing vibration to liberate the panel. Examination disclosed that all seven of the securing screws were still attached to the aircraft side of the panel (the heads of two of them were broken) and all but one of the bolts were also still attached, 26 on the aircraft side and 3 on the panel side. A cross check of the bolt part numbers with the IPC found that five of the 29 recovered bolts were slightly longer than the specified ones and had been wrongly used, three in positions close to the support bracket in the forward upper corner of the panel. The effect of using a longer bolt was observed to be that when torqued, its grip length relative to thread length is reduced so that the panel may be less securely attached to the surrounding structure. This issue was carefully considered to assess whether it had been contributory to the detachment of the panel. However, it was concluded that, in view of the limited number of incorrect bolts involved, the absence of any signs of airflow behind the panel assembly in their immediate vicinity and the knowledge that similarly incorrect bolts had not been used to secure other support brackets which had been found to be cracked, it was unlikely to have been a factor in the release of the panel in the event under investigation. It was nevertheless observed that their use would be capable of contributing to panel release in different circumstances so it was considered “desirable that the Operator review its maintenance procedures for procedural compliance and parts management” and takes steps to ensure that the installation of incorrect panel bolts does not occur. It was discovered that the aircraft type had a sufficient history of failed support brackets to have caused Boeing to redesign the original part to create a more robust alternative (see the illustration below). This much thicker “enhanced” bracket design had been introduced on the new aircraft production line but only offered in optional SB form to some of the potentially affected in-service aircraft, all -300 variants. In the case of KLMs 16-strong -200 fleet, the only communication from Boeing on the subject which did apply was in the form of a Service Letter issued in 2009 which, under KLM practices then prevalent did not, in the absence of any bracket failures on their aircraft, trigger any action. The Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was formally determined to have been that “it occurred when the departed right aft wing-to-body fairing panel struck and damaged a moving vehicle while