on the Terrain Clearance Floor (TCF) function. An immediate go-around was initiated by the First Officer at a recorded 189 feet agl and the aircraft was then positioned for a second approach. This time, the ILS LLZ which had not been displayed during the first approach was used and the flight was subsequently completed with a normal landing. The Captain stated that it was about two years since he had last operated into Jaipur and that he “was not aware of any road to the south of the runway”. The Investigation made a number of observations on the facts gathered which are summarised as follows: It was noted that whilst there was “no defined circuit pattern or circuit altitude at Jaipur”, the aircraft operator did have clear guidance on how a visual circuit should be flown which included being downwind at 1500 feet aal.. The crew flew an extended downwind leg which did not conform to the ‘Visual Approach’ procedure prescribed in the operator’s OM and Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM). Also, on the downwind leg, the First Officer as PF was entirely reliant on the Captain to advise when the aircraft was abeam the landing runway threshold so that he could ensure the appropriate timing to the base leg turn but no evidence was presented that this call was made.. Although the visibility was “well above the minimum for a visual approach”, the crew overlooked the fact that the approach would be into sun which would affect their ability to see the runway. They then disregarded the SOP advice to back up a visual approach with any available radio navigation aids, in this case the ILS LLZ which would have ensured they made their final approach on the runway extended centreline.. The fact that the First Officer appears more than once to have pointed out the runway when he first saw it but continued the approach in accordance with guidance from the Captain was considered to indicate a lack of assertiveness on the part of the First Officer and a corresponding lack of receptiveness on the part of the Captain. It was observed that with effective CRM in place, “if something does not look correct the observing crewmember bears responsibility for communicating what they see - the key behind successful CRM is being receptive, informative, proactive, and persistent”.. In the event that a go-around becomes necessary whilst the Captain is acting as PM, he is required to call “I have control” and take over and the other pilot must acknowledge by announcing “you have control” whilst continuing to fly the aircraft until a positive input is made by the Captain. This requirement was ignored.. In respect of the road mistaken for the runway by the Captain, this was identified as being 60 metres wide and 380 metres to the left of the centreline of the 45 metre-wide runway. This road was a dual carriageway, was not straight and had traffic lights at intervals along its length. The 45 metre