An Investigation in accordance with Annex 13 principles was carried out by Indian DGCA. The FDR was recovered from the aircraft and its data were successfully downloaded but the CVR was not removed because the initial report of the event described it only as a “go-around due to triggering of a GPWS warning”. The 49 year-old Captain had a total of 6,791 flying hours experience including 3,941 hours on type of which 870 hours had been in command on type. He had joined Indigo at the age of 44 after prior service as a military pilot. The 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,577 hours flying experience, all but 260 hours of which had been on type. He had qualified as a First Officer in 2011 and had been employed by Indigo since then. It was established that with the First Officer as PF, the flight was advised by Jaipur APP to expect an ILS LLZ approach to runway 27 and the Captain then “briefed and planned” for the corresponding procedural approach via the overhead. When around 35 nm from Jaipur, APP advised that the visibility was 5000 metres and offered the option of a visual approach which was accepted. On reporting “field in sight”, the flight was cleared for the visual approach and (since it would be joining the circuit downwind left hand) was instructed to report on left base for runway 27 and transferred to TWR. The aircraft subsequently joined downwind at 2700 feet amsl with AP2 engaged and the selected speed as 180 knots and flaps 1. After flying downwind for one minute to a position approximately 4nm from the runway threshold, the AP was disengaged, gear down and flap 1 were selected and the base turn was made. As the aircraft rolled out of the base turn, both pilots began looking for the runway and almost immediately, the Captain called “runway in sight" and instructed the First Officer to descend, although the First Officer did not yet have runway contact. Flap 3 was selected as descent at a maximum of 1000 fpm was maintained for approximately half a minute. A turn onto finals was made when around 4½ nm from the threshold with the aircraft at 1000 feet agl and the airspeed at the applicable VAPP of 140 KCAS. During this turn, the First Officer still did not have the runway in sight and followed the Captain’s instructions as the forward visibility TCF deteriorated due to the setting sun being directly ahead. When the First Officer eventually sighted the runway at 500 feet agl, he realised that “what Captain was assuming to be runway was a straight road” and he was being asked to descend with reference towards this road rather than the runway. His alerts to the Captain that this was not the runway were apparently ineffective and FDR data indicated that at 200 feet agl with 1.27 nm to go to the threshold, an EGPWS ‘TOO LOW TERRAIN’ Alert was triggered based