A PAN was not declared to ATC who were not informed of the problem, but in the descent, the Captain contacted Transavia Maintenance Control to advise the need for maintenance on arrival. Prior to beginning the approach, the crew consulted the QRH to check the required thrust and pitch attitude and decided that as landing performance with this increased speed was compatible with the length of the runway at Paris Orly, they would increase the approach speed by 10 knots “in order to have a sufficient indicated airspeed on both PFDs”. The flight was completed without further event and the Captain made a defect entry in the Aircraft Technical Log which included all the alert messages seen. A technician employed by a subcontractor of the company which Transavia used for the maintenance of its aircraft was detailed to deal with the defect entry reported that he had “complied with the AMM procedures concerning the inspection of AOA sensors, pitot probes and static pressure ports and the stall warning system and did not observe anything abnormal”, adding that “the AOA sensor moved freely”. However, he did not consult the applicable procedures in the Fault Isolation Manual (FIM) because “the actions that he carried out ultimately corresponded to what was required by the FIM” whilst accepting that although the FIM procedure for the ‘AOA DISAGREE’ alert required the Stall Management & Yaw Damper Computer to be tested in order to see whether it has recorded a failure, “he had not thought to do this”. He stated that he had surmised that “the AOA sensor might have iced up which could explain why he had not detected any problem” and so had released the aircraft to service with a “no fault found” entry in the Technical Log. The next day, the aircraft was allocated to a flight to Marrakesh and the flight was being used for line training of a new Captain who it was agreed would occupy the left hand seat as PF with the supervising Training Captain acting a PM from the right hand seat. The trainee Captain stated that he had not noticed the cleared defect entry in the Technical Log. The departure was delayed due to “various technical and operational matters” but a takeoff from runway 26 was eventually commenced. During the takeoff roll, the PF observed that the airspeed on his PFD had exceeded 80 knots without the PM making the check call. When he asked if the PM’s airspeed had passed 80 knots, the PM called out “80 knots” whilst observing that the left PFD already indicated 90 knots. He asked the trainee Captain if he was willing to continue and received an affirmative response. However, almost immediately - between 90 and 95 knots - the ‘IAS DISAGREE’ alert message appeared and the Training Captain terminated the training and took over as PF, completed the takeoff and rotated to 15° leaving the reduced takeoff thrust as already set. Soon afterwards, the ‘AOA DISAGREE’ and ‘ALT DISAGREE’ alerts