the takeoff” adding that it had been his first experience of a failure between 80 knots and V1. It was found that in addition to the airspeed and altitude display errors which can be caused by a malfunctioning AOA sensor, other systems on the same side may also be corrupted by a sensor malfunction. These consequences include a reduction in the effectiveness of the yaw damper if the automated systems are engaged on the faulty system side and false activation of the stick shaker or non activation in an imminent stall situation. Such secondary malfunctions have the potential to increased crew workload and/or create difficulty in controlling the aircraft. Unlike the simple rectification required, the origin of the fault was found to be somewhat problematic. It was found that the failed right AOA sensor had been fitted at build and had not been subject to any maintenance intervention since. Analysis of historic flight data provided by the operator showed that malfunction of the right AOA sensor had developed gradually over time with the first signs of it doing so evident as early as March 2015, shortly after the aircraft had been delivered new. A detailed examination of the removed faulty sensor found that several of its internal components were damaged. The component that appeared to be at the root of the sensor malfunction was sent to the OEM which had manufactured it who coordinated a forensic examination with the subcontractor who had supplied it. This found that it was contaminated by a “viscous and tacky substance” which was interfering with its correct function. It was impossible to determine if this contaminant had been introduced during the component manufacturing process or had been the result of an exposure after delivery to the OEM. The contaminant was found to consist primarily of the epoxy resin, used in the manufacture of the component but with the addition of one or more other substances. It was then found that a substance called Tetra Hydro Furfuryl Alcohol (THFA) used by the OEM during the manufacture of the sensor “provided a close match” to the contaminant identified in the faulty sensor component. However, since the manufacturing process precluded its introduction during the relevant manufacturing process, any contact with THFA must have been inadvertent. The OEM also observed that following manufacture of a sensor, it is still possible for external contaminants to enter it. Nevertheless the OEM implemented additional material handling procedures and affixed warning notices on all the equipment using THFA to help minimise the chances of THFA accidentally coming into contact with the sensor component involved. Two Contributory Factors were documented as follows: The contamination of resolver 2 of the right AOA sensor by a solvent which led to a failure of this component and (to the sensor containing it) generating erroneous speed and altitude indications, followed by the AOA, IAS and ALT DISAGREE alerts. The Investigation was not able to determine the cause of this contamination which seemed to be an isolated case nor