An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA assisted by history of maintenance faults obtained from QAR data and crew statements. The Captain for the flight from Norwich had been employed by Transavia since 2015 and had a total of approximately 12,000 hours flight experience which included 1,842 hours on type. The First Officer had been employed by Transavia for three months and had around 4,000 flight hours. Having become qualified on type since being employed, he had since flown 73 hours on type. The Training Captain of the following day’s departure from Paris Orly had over 10,000 hours flight experience on the Boeing 737 and on the incident flight was supervising a trainee Captain who had recently joined Transavia from Air France where he had been an A320 Captain. He too had just gained his 737 type rating and had just 23 hours on type. The aircraft had just been released from a ‘C’ Check at the KLM UK Engineering facility at Norwich and the crew were rostered to position it to Paris Orly. With the Captain acting as PF, as the flight approached the indicated 80 knots which is the prompt for the PM to call ‘80 knots’, the Captain called “check” which is the normal response to that call if the speed on the PF panel is the same. The takeoff was continued without comment and around the point where the Captain began the rotation, an ‘IAS DISAGREE’ alert message appeared on both PFDs and he quickly recognised that his PFD and the standby ASI were giving the same reading and the First Officer’s PFD was giving an erroneous reading. During the initial climb, ‘AOA DISAGREE’ and ‘ALT DISAGREE’ Alerts were also displayed on the PFDs. The Captain decided to continue the flight and postpone the fault checklists until the traffic conditions were less busy and kept the AP, A/T and FD engaged. Both pilots reported observing that the First Officer’s altimeter reading was also erroneous and that the differences in both airspeed and altitude between the two PFDs were increasing. The First Officer stated that once level at FL 220, the planned cruise level, the altitude difference was 2,000 feet and the airspeed difference was between 30 and 40 knots, both values being lower on the First Officer’s displays. The ‘AOA DISAGREE’, ‘ALT DISAGREE’ and ‘IAS DISAGREE’ checklists were completed and when the last of these referred them to the ‘Unreliable Airspeed’ procedure, they consulted it but saw that it did not apply as they has already identified which side was correct. However, they did check the speed indication on the Captain’s side which they confirmed as consistent with the unreliable airspeed table included in the ‘Unreliable Airspeed’ procedure. Once the checklists had been completed, the crew carried out a ‘TACBDE’ review. This is a decision making method specific to Transavia France and stands for Trajectoire (path), Action-menace, (action-risk), Court terme (short term), Bilan (assessment), Décision (decision), Exécution (execution).