appeared in quick succession and he then saw that his PFD was displaying airspeed and altitude values which were respectively 20 knots and 400 feet below those on the left side PFD and the standby instrumentation. He informed the trainee Captain of this and asked him to resume as PF. The climb was stopped at FL 090 and, after completing the memory items for “Unreliable Airspeed”, they successively disconnected the A/T, the AP and both FDs and set a pitch of 4° and 75 % thrust. The Training Captain then declared a ‘PAN’ to ATC and requested radar vectors back to Orly. He then carried out the checklists associated with the various alerts and the crew then carried out a TACBDE assessment. The left AP and FD were re-engaged and the turnback to Orly was completed without further event other than an overweight landing with a flight time of 40 minutes. The maintenance team which attended the aircraft after this flight “observed that the AOA sensor on the right side was abnormally resistant to being turned and there were unusual clicking noises”. When the Stall Management & Yaw Damper Computer test was carried out, the resulting error messages indicated a right side AOA sensor failure and this was rectified by its replacement. It was found that one of the maintenance checks carried out during the ‘C’ Check at Norwich required the two AOA sensors to be manually turned through 30° and the technicians who had done this stated that they “had not noticed any anomaly”. It was noted that in both departures the flight crew did not immediately carry out the memory items, rather they first sought to identify which side was displaying erroneous information and had initially used this assessment to continue with the automatic systems engaged. It was noted that Boeing had prioritised minimising the number of memory items when formulating the Unreliable Airspeed procedure recognising that pitch and thrust values of 10° and 80 % N1 respectively will ensure a safe takeoff and initial climb and observed that any abnormal situation must always be assessed by the Captain who remains free to determine the most appropriate response. Both flights were also continued when the 80 knot airspeed check failed. The Captain of the first day’s flight noted that the discrepancy was not verbalised and that not having considered the situation dangerous, he had not envisaged rejecting the takeoff, adding that the prevailing VMC had simplified a response to the problem and that he may have reacted differently had IMC prevailed. On the second day, the trainee Captain stated that he would have been “very willing” to reject the takeoff but that “the way the question was asked pushed him to reply in the affirmative” and having only recently been employed by the airline, “he did not feel comfortable about contradicting the aircraft commander”. The Training Captain said that although he had not judged the situation to be dangerous, “in retrospect it would have been preferable to reject