situational awareness on the part of the flight crew at this stage”. The TWR controller called to confirm that the aircraft was still in VMC and that the crew still intended to position to land on runway 02 and, on receiving confirmation of both, cleared the flight to join right hand downwind for that runway. A caution that there was other traffic on short final for the same runway and ahead of them was given and acknowledged by the Captain. However ATC then saw that the aircraft was tracking toward runway 20 instead of joining the right downwind for runway 02 as cleared and warned the crew not to proceed toward runway 20 because of the landing traffic and cleared them to perform “an orbit at their present position”. However, by this time, the aircraft had already flown north abeam the runway 20 threshold heading west and climbing. On reaching 6500 feet, the Captain then began to descend in a steeply banked right hand orbit northwest of the airport and was recorded “admitting to the First Officer that he had made a mistake as he was constantly talking to her”. The rate of descent exceeded 2000 fpm and the bank angle was as much as 45° right wing down which led to more EGPWS warnings. At 5,400 feet, the aircraft rolled out of the orbit onto a south easterly track still without having visually acquired the airport environment. Finally, with the other aircraft having now landed, and with no indication that either of the accident aircraft pilots had located the runway, the TWR controller, recognising the crew’s confusion over their position issued a landing clearance for either runway and assured them that the runway was clear. The Captain, who by now had completely taken over radio communications despite also hand flying the aircraft, replied that he would like to land on runway 20 but did not have it in sight. The CVR revealed that both pilots had made several statements which indicated that they completely lost any appreciation of their position relative to the runway. The south easterly track was maintained through the extended runway 20 centreline and toward the area northwest of the runway 20 threshold and the TWR controller, unsure whether the crew had yet visually acquired the runway advised the aircraft’s position and suggested a turn to the right if it was not in sight. Whilst making this turn, the First Officer stated that she could see the runway at the 3 o’clock relative position when the aircraft was at about 1,200 feet aal and just under 2 nm from the 20 threshold. Despite the potential difficulty of manoeuvring directly to a landing from this position, the Captain attempted to do so, requesting that the heading bugs be set to 022 (instead of 202), calling for confirmation of landing clearance (received) and yet again calling for the landing checklist. Those in the TWR then observed the aircraft still turning left from a westerly heading to align with