the runway as it was about to reach the threshold. FDR data showed that it had crossed the threshold maintaining 150 KIAS at 450 feet agl and in a 40° banked turn with 35° to go until aligned with the runway. There was no call from the First Officer for a go around and the TWR controller, concerned that the aircraft turn was taking it west of the runway and close to buildings was alarmed by the situation and hurriedly sought to cancel the landing clearance previously given but instead transmitted "takeoff clearance cancelled". In the following 15-20 seconds, the aircraft flew over the area west of the runway as it turned left with continuous EGPWS ‘BANK ANGLE’ and ‘SINK RATE’ Alerts again sounding passing near the Tower and as low as 45 feet above the domestic passenger terminal before attempting to align with the runway for touchdown. Runway contact occurred 1700 metres along the 3050 metre-long runway with a bank angle of about 15° left wing down and on a heading of about 195°. The aircraft left the runway almost immediately and after breaking through the inner perimeter fence continued down a rough slope before coming to a stop about 440 metres from the first runway contact point. There was considerable impact damage and a major fire began almost immediately and engulfed much of the aircraft. Recognising that the poor performance of the (senior) Captain was the main context for the accident, the Investigation documented various evidence that suggested that his mental health was such that he was unfit to be flying. Notwithstanding various findings, it was accepted that in the absence of any detected symptoms during any of the medical examinations which had followed his successful psychiatric re-evaluation in 2002, US Bangla had no general reason to be concerned about this issue medically. However, the extent to which he fully declared medically-relevant matters when completing medical self-disclosure forms was found to have varied which was considered to show that there was inconsistency between medical reality and medical disclosure. It was also evident that he had been “talking almost non-stop” throughout the accident flight and had been worried and “emotionally stressed” about a particular interpersonal situation involving criticism of his competency by a colleague which had become widely known. On this latter subject, he could be heard telling the First Officer that he was so concerned by this situation that despite enjoying working for the airline and having no other job to go to, he planned to resign because of it. It was also noted from the CVR that he had at times been “irritable, tensed, moody, and aggressive” as an apparent consequence of this situation and it was considered that the stress of it may have induced the excessive and unnecessary conversation which had represented a significant distraction from focussing on the safe operation of the aircraft, in particular immediately prior to and during critical phases of flight. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as: Disorientation