An Investigation was conducted by an Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission established for that purpose and was conducted in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 principles in accordance with the Civil Aviation (Accident Investigation) Regulation (2016) of Nepal. The CVR and FDR were removed from the wreckage and their data were successfully downloaded. Useful data were also recovered from the Engine Monitoring Unit (EMU) and data from both the EGPWS and airport CCTV were useful in corroborating FDR data. It was noted that the 52-year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had accumulated a total of 5518 flying hours including 2824 hours on all DHC8 variants with 1793 hours on the -400. He had gained his initial pilot experience in the Bangladeshi Air Force which he left after 10 years of service, including as a fast jet pilot, in 1993 after being removed from active duty after a psychiatric examination which confirmed depression. After nine years, he had been assessed at another psychiatric examination and “declared to be fit for flying”. In 2010, he had joined Regent Airways as a First Officer on the DHC8-100/300 before moving to United Airways in 2011 as an ATR72 Captain and later as a Training Captain where he accumulated over 2200 hours in command. He had joined US Bangla Airlines in 2015 as a DHC8-400 Captain and had again become a Training Captain. The 25 year-old First Officer had a total of 390 flying hours including 240 hours on type all gained since she had joined the airline in September 2016 directly after completing pilot training for issue of a CPL at a Dhaka Flight Training School. All the available evidence was used to reconstruct the final half hour of the flight. It was found that although the Captain had made a limited attempt to conduct an approach briefing prior to beginning descent from FL240, this had been “very short” and lacked an adequate briefing on the likely VOR 02 approach procedure for which the Captain did not appear to have his own chart. It was considered that his apparent complacency may have been due to his own relative familiarity with the destination in contrast to his very low experience First Officer for whom this was the first visit. It was noted from the CVR record that during the brief the First Officer had spoken on several occasions in a way that indicated that she “had an incorrect understanding of the procedures to follow during approach and her confusion over the missed approach procedure (which) was never resolved” with the Captain saying that he would “brief the remaining items later”. Initial descent to FL160 was given together with an Expected Approach Time (EAT) which might involve taking up a brief hold before commencing the approach. On transfer to the APP frequency, further descent clearance to 13,500 feet was given (the aerodrome reference point (ARP) elevation for Kathmandu is 4395 feet) with a clearance limit of waypoint GURAS, the IAF for the 02 approach,