airport, for the first time, no safety pilot, which could have been a great help in the situation, was provided.. A lack of simulator training for the Captain dedicated to the visual approach for runway 20 at Kathmandu.. A total of 15 Safety Recommendations were made by the Investigation Commission as follows: that the Bangladesh CAA should, before renewing the licence of any pilot who has previously been permanently grounded for medical reasons, require a thorough assessment of their physical and psychological status. A system which will closely monitor their medical condition in all subsequent medical examinations should be adopted as well.. that the Bangladesh CAA should require all airline pilots to undergo a psychological evaluation as part of their training or before entering into the service and airlines shall verify that the evaluation has been carried out. The psychological part of the initial and recurrent aeromedical assessment and the related training for aeromedical examiners should be strengthened.. that US Bangla Airlines should give emphasis to the proper and effective implementation of CRM in the company.. that US Bangla Airlines should establish a system to ensure the proper implementation of SOPs in all phases of flight.. that US Bangla Airlines should establish an effective mechanism to monitor and assess the mental health status of pilots in respect of professional development and financial issues as well as personal and psychological issues.. that US Bangla Airlines should establish and implement a policy to de-roster any crew member found to be stressed, fatigued or emotionally disturbed.. that US Bangla Airlines should re-examine its system to ensure that all relevant documents are subject to timely review and updating.. that US Bangla Airlines should revise their pilot training process to include simulator training for the circling approach to runway 20 at Kathmandu.. that US Bangla Airlines should re-assess its pre-flight briefing regime to ensure that a proper pre-flight briefing by the dispatcher to the crew has been given at the appropriate time.. that US Bangla Airlines should revise their training programme to include the provision of a safety pilot during Kathmandu route clearance training for less experienced pilots.. that US Bangla Airlines should ensure that Line Oriented Safety Audits (LOSA) are carried out periodically.. that US Bangla Airlines should encourage crew members to be specific regarding the reporting of their medical issues and habits on the medical self-declaration form.. that US Bangla Airlines should reinforce a firm policy regarding No Smoking during the flight and have a system in place to monitor compliance proactively and take any necessary action accordingly.. that the CAA Nepal should strengthen the capacity of the air traffic controllers by developing an appropriate training programme to enable them to become more assertive when handling traffic and issuing clearances to such traffic especially in the event of abnormal or emergency situations.. that the CAA Nepal shall require air traffic controllers to be more vigilant and visually look out for an aircraft after its landing clearance has been issued in VMC.. The Final