was not made. It was clear from the CVR that the Captain was having difficulty understanding what the First Officer was saying because of the high noise level on the flight deck created by the continuing landing gear status warning. The Captain was recorded asking for the landing checklist for a third time and again received the response that it was complete despite the continuing landing gear unsafe tone. With the aircraft now in VMC, the MDA was reached with the descent rate still 1700 fpm and well to the right of the FAT as shown at annotated point 11 in the illustration below. Neither of the crew had the runway or even the “airport environment” in sight but no attempt was made to initiate a go around and the EGPWS Alerts ‘SINK RATE’ and ‘TOO LOW GEAR’ occurred (with no action taken by the Captain in response) as the TWR advised of a surface wind from 220° at 7 knots - a tailwind component of 6 knots - and cleared the flight to land. However, the alert appeared to result in the First Officer realising that the landing gear was not actually down and having sought permission from the Captain, she selected it down. The Captain then requested the landing checklist for a fourth time. The AP was disconnected as the aircraft passed east abeam the VOR which was located 0.7 nm prior to the 02 threshold. A further conversation between the pilots then “led to an ambiguous expectation of when they would acquire visual contact with the runway environment while being unaware that the aircraft had already flown past it” in a north easterly direction. The Captain appeared to continue assuming that the landing runway was still ahead of them even though it was now behind them to the south east and they were now 3-4 nm from the VOR. TWR then called due to their concern at seeing the aircraft north east of the airport to remind them that they were supposed to be landing on runway 02 but appeared to be proceeding toward runway 20. The controller followed up by asking the crew what their intentions were and the Captain replied that they would be “landing on runway 02”. However, the aircraft continued to the north east until terrain ahead indicated that a right hand orbit was the only obvious way out. While struggling to find the runway, the flight continued on a north easterly track accompanied by “continuous EGPWS warnings with various flight parameters exceeded”. Sighting the rising terrain ahead, the Captain began a right hand orbit. During this manoeuvre, the aircraft descended to as low as 175 feet agl with bank angles of up to 35-40° leading to the activation of various EGPWS alerts and warnings. The Investigation noted that although in VMC, neither pilot had yet seen the runway and were “desperate to find it” and still unaware of their position. The Investigation Commission “concluded that there had been a complete loss of