to take up the hold there. The IAF was just under 18 nm from the runway threshold and the procedure required the descent from that point to commence at 11,500 feet. The FMS ‘HOLD’ mode was armed accordingly and further descent to 12,500 feet was given at minimum clean speed. A hold of up to 6 minutes appeared likely but then APP gave further descent to 11,500 feet, cancelled the EAT and cleared the flight to commence the approach without any delay with GURAS only 3 minutes flight time away. The AP was engaged and IMC prevailed. Neither pilot remembered to cancel the FMS ‘HOLD’ mode “as they were engaged in some unnecessary conversation”. It was also noted that at this time, the Captain, an habitual smoker who had repeatedly failed to declare his habit on pilot medical self-declaration forms and repeatedly breached the company rule of no smoking in flight, had begun smoking another cigarette. The result of this oversight was that instead of continuing as cleared, when the aircraft reached GURAS, it turned left and began to enter the racetrack holding pattern. The Captain reacted by replacing ‘HOLD’ with ‘HDG’ and setting 027° to regain the required 022° track from the west aided by quite a strong westerly wind. The selection of HDG mode meant that pitch hold mode was also now active and the Captain responded by making pitch wheel inputs to initiate a descent at up to 1300 fpm. Company stabilised approach procedures applicable to Kathmandu in Part ‘C’ of the OM were noted to require that full landing configuration with the landing checklist completed must be completed before the IAF (GURAS) whereas the Captain did not request initial flap 5 until 2 nm after this position and flap 15 until 4 nm DME after it. The landing checklist was similarly delayed and when ‘landing gear’ was called, the Captain responded with “gears down three greens” without checking to confirm. In fact it was not down and locked, a fact also “overlooked” by the First Officer. As the latter reported 10 miles final to APP and the flight was transferred to the TWR frequency, the CVR also recorded a continuous ‘landing gear unsafe’ tone on the area microphone channel which was being “constantly disregarded by both pilots”. Soon after this, the MDA for the approach was incorrectly set by the Captain as 4688 feet instead of the published figure of 4950 feet (equivalent to 629 feet above runway elevation). The Captain requested the landing checklist for a second time and the First Officer reminded him that it had been completed even though the landing gear unsafe tone was still sounding. The First Officer continued to prompt the Captain that they were descending at 500-600 feet above the procedure vertical profile. The aircraft regained the VOR procedure final approach track (FAT) with just over 7 nm to go but this went undetected and the corrective left turn required - achievable by selecting LNAV or VOR mode -