and a complete loss of situational awareness on the part of the flight crew (after the intended) approach path was offset from the proper approach path leading to manoeuvres in a very dangerous and unsafe attitude to align with the (opposite direction of the) runway. The landing was completed in sheer desperation after sighting the runway at very close proximity and very low altitude (and with) no attempt made to carry out a go around when a go around seemed possible until the last instant before touchdown on the runway. A total of 20 Contributory Factors were also identified: The inappropriate timing of the (dispatcher’s) operational pre-flight briefing for the accident flight which was given in early morning when the flight departure time was around noon and there were four short domestic flights scheduled first.. The Captain, who was the PF, seemed to be under stress due to the behaviour of a particular female colleague in the company (not present on the flight) and lack of sleep the preceding night.. A very steep authority gradient between the two pilots.. The flight crew not having practiced a visual approach for runway 20 in the simulator.. A poor level of CRM between the two pilots.. The failure to arm the VOR so that the autopilot would intercept the desired radial (the aircraft never established on the procedure radial, rather it passed through it from left to right because HDG Mode remained selected).. The failure to adhere to standard operating procedure including the failure to perform a proper briefing.. The fact that the unsafe gear warning horn was not noticed by the crew until approaching the MDA of the initially attempted VOR approach procedure.. The Captain did not promptly respond to EGPWS Warnings with corrective action.. The failure to carry out a standard missed approach procedure from the initial approach to runway 02 despite the runway not being in sight at MDA.. The failure to meet the criteria for stabilised approach.. The Captain’s increased workload when he was manually flying the aircraft whilst also communicating with ATC.. A loss of situational awareness due to mis-alignment with the runway during initial approach and subsequently not being able to sight the runway.. The high bank angle, rapid rate of descent, excessive threshold speed and inadequate rudder input contributed to a hard contact of the right main landing gear with the runway.. The failure to monitor the speed, altitude and the radial during the initial approach attempt.. A lack of assertiveness on the part of the Air Traffic controller when monitoring the flight path of the aircraft and not then issuing a clear instruction to carry out a standard missed approach procedure.. A lack of clear understanding and acknowledgment on the part of both ATC and the flight crew in respect of each other's communication regarding the landing runway.. A failure on the part of the ATC to alert the crew to their actual position.. Although the First Officer was operating to Kathmandu, a Category ‘C’