The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) did not investigate the event because it was "regarded as a pilot deviation from an ATC clearance" but the Singapore AAIB "regarded the occurrence as being significant enough to merit a report to highlight the safety lessons". It was acknowledged that the factual information available consisted primarily of inputs from the NTSB, the FAA and the Operator. The operating flight crew consisted of a Captain acting as PF and a Senior First Officer. A relief Captain was also part of the crew and was present for the pre-departure briefing and on the flight deck for the departure. Each pilot had an EFB on which charts were stored. The departure from runway 15L on the SID given included a requirement to "MAINTAIN 4,000' or as assigned by ATC" and advised that the filed altitude could be expected 10 minutes after departure. However, this information was contained in lines two and three of a three line 'Routing' section in the text box at the bottom left corner of the SID chart and had been missed. The PF stated that when he had been briefing, after reading the first line of this section, he had scrolled "to the pictorial portion […] of the chart and zoomed in to check on the track and distances". He had then concluded to the PM and the relief Captain that "there were no altitude restrictions” and proceeded to set the initial FPL cruising altitude of FL310 on the MCP. During post-event interviews, it was apparent that all crew members "expected" that there would be some intermediate altitude to level off at before being cleared to FL310 and the PF said that "when he did not see any intermediate altitude on the SID chart, he thought that it would be given to him by ATC later" and had planned to ask ATC for it if not given, but he had not communicated this "plan to ask ATC" to the PM, who it was considered could have reminded him to ask ATC later. The Departure Clearance subsequently given by ATC concluded with the phrase "climb via SID" after including the name of the SID and the Transition, but made no mention of the charted SID stop altitude. Once airborne, initial contact with ATC was followed by a radar heading to take up after passing 2,500 feet; the read back of this clearance was noted not to have included the altitude the aircraft was climbing to. The climb was continued through the 4,000 feet stop altitude and passing approximately 5,000 feet, a TCAS TA was annunciated followed by an ATC instruction delivered "in an urgent tone" to descend to 5,000 feet. The PF disconnected the AP and initiated the descent and soon after this a TCAS CLIMB CROSSING CLIMB RA was annunciated. This was ignored and after 19 seconds, with the aircraft still descending, it changed to a 'LEVEL OFF' which continued until 'CLEAR OF CONFLICT followed 8 seconds later and the aircraft started