to level off at "about 5,000 feet". It was found that at their closest, the two aircraft had been 200 feet vertically and 0.61nm laterally apart, the other aircraft having been descending to 6,000 feet in accordance with its clearance. The Relief Captain subsequently re-examined the SID Chart and noticed the 4,000 feet altitude restriction which they had all missed during briefing from the chart earlier. The Investigation noted that the "climb via SID" clearance phraseology had been part of new procedures and phraseology introduced by the FAA earlier in 2014 and that it had been highlighted to crews and included in their recurrent training details. Under this system, if a SID Chart contains a stop altitude, the R/T phrase "climb via" is deemed to include it as well as the route and neither are repeated when including a SID in the Departure Clearance. It was considered that the failure of the other two pilots to notice the operating Captain's pre-flight briefing error suggested "ineffectiveness of the monitoring action […] and that there is room for improvement in Crew Resource Management (CRM) training". It was also found that when ATC instructed the aircraft to descend to 5,000 feet, this altitude was not set on the MCP so that when the aircraft reached 5,000 feet, another unauthorised climb began and "it took another query from ATC" before the crew realised this error. A number of other Operator Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) were observed to have been ignored, in particular the FCTM in respect of standard radio communications phraseology which "requires pilots to articulate both passing altitude and assigned altitude in their initial contact with a radar departure frequency". It was, however, noted that the SID stop altitude only appeared in a text box whereas it would have been less likely to be missed had it been included on the diagram showing the SID routing, particularly as at the time of the event, it appeared in a text box headed 'Routing' rather than in the one above headed 'Initial Climb'. The lack of familiarity of the crew with TCAS RAs in actual flight was noted - it was found that the investigated event was the first time the PF had experienced a Climb, Crossing Climb RA in actual flight and the first time the other two pilots had experienced any RA in actual flight. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated event included the following: Singapore Airlines made significant changes to the pilot recurrent training programme in support of better monitoring and CRM and by introducing "more demanding" TCAS RA scenarios that include ones with conflicting ATC instructions and scenarios which invite a junior PM to challenge a PF if SOPs are not followed.. The FAA amended their standards for charting RNAV SIDs so that the stop altitude is clearly shown in a box at the top centre of the chart.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 11 November 2015. No Safety Recommendations were made.