runway length during lineup into account. All crews must be familiar with the assumptions made in the production of their own company’s data. The Net Takeoff Flight Path for the engine failure case is divided into four segments. Three of these are climbing segments with specified minimum gradients which are dependent upon the number of engines installed on the aircraft and one is a level acceleration segment. A brief description of the four segments is as follows: Each segment of the one engine inoperative takeoff flight path has a mandated climb gradient requirement. For example, a gross second segment climb gradient capability of 2.4%, 2.7% or 3.0% is required for two, three and four engine aircraft respectively. Similarly, the required gross gradients for the fourth segment are 1.2%, 1.5% and 1.7% respectively. To ensure obstacle clearance while allowing for aircraft performance degradation and less than optimum pilot technique, the gross gradients are reduced by 0.8%, 0.9% and 1.0% respectively to calculate a net gradient. The obstacle identification surface (OIS), or obstruction envelope, starts at runway elevation at a point directly beneath the end of the takeoff distance (TOD) and parallels the net gradient profile of the climb segments. If an obstacle in the departure path penetrates the OIS, the slope of the OIS must be increased and both the net and the gross gradient slopes of the corresponding segment must also be increased to ensure that the minimum obstacle clearance criteria is met. The aircraft net gradient capability, correctable for temperature, altitude and pressure, is published in the AFM performance data and, in actual operations, must ensure that the limiting obstacle in the departure path can be cleared by a minimum of 35'. If there is an obstacle within the departure path that cannot be avoided and would not be cleared by 35', the planned takeoff weight must be reduced until minimum obstacle clearance can be achieved. Note that, by regulation, turns immediately after takeoff cannot be initiated below the greater of 50'AGL or one half of the aircraft wingspan and, that during the initial climb, turns are limited to 15° of bank. Turning will result in a reduction in aircraft climb capability. To maximise the payload capability from any given runway, most operators develop and utilize emergency turn procedures. These procedures follow a specified ground track which minimises the affects of local obstacles and a specified vertical profile which complies with the more restrictive of certification or actual obstacle climb requirements.