There are many safety and performance requirements that must be met before an aircraft will be issued a type certificate. For multi-engine, transport category jet aircraft, minimum runway requirements that allow the safe rejection or continuation of a takeoff in the event of a failure and the ability to comply with minimum specified engine out climb gradients and obstacle clearance criteria are both critically important. Regulatory criteria for minimum runway requirements encompass multiple calculations inclusive of Takeoff Distance (TOD), Takeoff Run (TOR) and Accelerate Stop Distance (ASD). The most limiting of these criteria, based on aircraft weight and prevailing atmospheric conditions, defines the minimum runway required for takeoff. Note that, depending upon the regulations under which the aircraft certification is granted, these distances may have to take into consideration the runway distance lost during line-up. The Takeoff Distance on a dry runway is the greater of the following values: The Takeoff Distance on a wet runway is the greater of: Takeoff Distance must not exceed the Takeoff Distance Available (TODA), with a clearway distance not to exceed half of the TODA Takeoff Run (TOR) calculations incorporate the operational advantage of a designated clearway when one is present on the departure runway. If no clearway exists, TOR = TOD. When a clearway exists, the Takeoff Run on a dry runway is the greater of the following values: When a clearway exists, the Takeoff Run on a wet runway is the greater of: Takeoff Run must not exceed Takeoff Run Available (TORA) Accelerate Stop Distance calculations assume the following: The Accelerate Stop Distance on a dry runway is the greater of the following values: The Accelerate Stop Distance on a wet runway is the greatest of: Note: Depending upon the criteria under which the aircraft was certified, the additional 2 seconds distance equivalent might not be required Accelerate Stop Distance must not exceed the Accelerate Stop Distance Available (ASDA) Declared distances such as TORA and ASDA are based on measurements from the runway threshold. However, unless the aircraft enters the runway from a point prior to the threshold, it is not possible to use the full length of the runway. Aircraft typically enter the takeoff runway from an intersecting taxiway. The aeroplane must then be turned to align it on the runway in the direction of takeoff. In some cases, it may be necessary to backtrack on the runway and turn through 180° before the takeoff run can be initiated. FAA regulations do not explicitly require airplane operators to take into account the runway distance used to align the aeroplane on the runway for takeoff. However, EASA regulations require that the applicable distance be taken into consideration. When required, the TODA and TORA must be reduced by the distance from the runway threshold to the main landing gear and ASDA reduced by the distance from the threshold to the nose gear. Manufacturers will provide minimum lineup distances required for both 90° and 180° turns. Some Operators provide data which takes loss of