loss of runway length during lineup into account. All crews must be familiar with the assumptions made in the production of their own company’s data. The Net Takeoff Flight Path for the engine failure case is divided into four segments. Three of these are climbing segments with specified minimum gradients which are dependent upon the number of engines installed on the aircraft and one is a level acceleration segment. A brief description of the four segments is as follows: First Segment - depending upon the regulations under which the aircraft is certified, the first segment begins either at lift-off or at the end of the takeoff distance at a screen height of 35' and a speed of V2. On a wet runway, the screen height is reduced to 15'. Operating engines are at takeoff thrust, the flaps/slats are in takeoff configuration and landing gear retraction is initiated once safely airborne with positive climb. The first segment ends when the landing gear is fully retracted.. Second Segment - begins when the landing gear is fully retracted. Engines are at takeoff thrust and the flaps/slats are in the takeoff configuration. This segment ends at the higher of 400' or specified acceleration altitude. In most cases, the second segment is the performance limiting segment of the climb.. Third or Acceleration Segment- begins at the higher of 400' or specified acceleration altitude. Engines are at takeoff thrust and the aircraft is accelerated in level flight. Slats/flaps are retracted on speed. The segment ends when aircraft is in clean configuration and a speed of VFS has been achieved. Note that the third segment must be completed prior to exceeding the maximum time allowed for engines at takeoff thrust.. Fourth or Final Segment - begins when the aircraft is in clean configuration and at a speed of VFS. Climb is re-established and thrust is reduced to maximum continuous (MCT). The segment ends at a minimum of 1500' above airport elevation or when the criteria for enroute obstacle clearance have been met.. Each segment of the one engine inoperative takeoff flight path has a mandated climb gradient requirement. For example, a gross second segment climb gradient capability of 2.4%, 2.7% or 3.0% is required for two, three and four engine aircraft respectively. Similarly, the required gross gradients for the fourth segment are 1.2%, 1.5% and 1.7% respectively. To ensure obstacle clearance while allowing for aircraft performance degradation and less than optimum pilot technique, the gross gradients are reduced by 0.8%, 0.9% and 1.0% respectively to calculate a net gradient. The obstacle identification surface (OIS), or obstruction envelope, starts at runway elevation at a point directly beneath the end of the takeoff distance (TOD) and parallels the net gradient profile of the climb segments. If an obstacle in the departure path penetrates the OIS, the slope of the OIS must be increased and both the net and the gross gradient slopes of the corresponding segment must also be increased to ensure that the minimum obstacle clearance criteria is