aeroplanes and has previously stated that similar requirements for onshore operations “should be considered” despite the challenges it presents. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally stated as follows: The helicopter flew unintentionally to within 28 feet of rising terrain because the pilots had lost situational awareness in low visibility approaching night, in conditions that were not suitable for the flight to be conducted under VFR. The available automatic and terrain awareness systems were not employed effectively. The Serious Incident could have been avoided by not conducting the flight, by flying to an alternate aerodrome available en route, or by diverting either to the departure aerodrome or to the alternate aerodrome as soon as the flight was no longer able to comply with VFR. The pilots’ ability to make effective decisions was probably adversely affected by several cognitive biases arising from the circumstances of the flight and their desire to accomplish the mission. The helicopter was equipped, and its pilots qualified, to fly under IFR to an aerodrome with published instrument approaches. The helicopter was equipped with a TAWS that functioned correctly and provided warnings that, if heeded, would have prevented the unintended flight towards terrain. Eight Safety Recommendations were made as follows: * that the Civil Aviation Authority publish guidance on the meaning and intention of the phase of flight alleviations in UK SERA where detailed as “except for take-off and landing” to better enable pilots to plan and act on minimum height requirements for safe operations. [2021-025] * that Starspeed Ltd specify in its operations manual stabilised approach criteria for visual approaches, including at off-aerodrome landing sites. [2021-026] * that the Civil Aviation Authority encourage the development and deployment of Point-in-Space operations at landing sites. [2021-027] * that the Civil Aviation Authority revise its guidance on helicopter flight in degraded visual conditions to include further information on managing the associated risks. [2021-028] * that Starspeed Ltd describe in its operations manual for the Sikorsky S92 helicopter the criteria for setting barometric altitude alert values at each stage of a flight. [2021-029] * that Starspeed Ltd specify in its operations manual a formal process for crew members to monitor, escalate concerns and, if necessary, take control during a flight. [2021-030] * that the Civil Aviation Authority ensure that operators show clear evidence within their system for operational control as required by UK ORO.GEN.110 (c), of how the tasking process separates the customer from the flight crew. [2021-031] * that the Civil Aviation Authority assess the safety benefits and feasibility of Helicopter Flight Data Monitoring programmes for onshore helicopter operators conducting commercial operations or non-commercial complex operations and publish its findings. [2021-032] Safety Action taken by Starspeed as a result of the investigated event was noted as having included: transferring the role of Safety Manager from the PF Captain involved in the investigated event to the Compliance Manager and has begun the process of delegating responsibility for the SMS from the Accountable Manager to the Compliance Manager. adding a note