HTAWS annunciation ‘WARNING TERRAIN’ occurred (see the illustration below) which the PF acknowledged by calling “visual” and continued the right turn onto a westerly track. The descent continued to 230 feet agl (significantly below the elevation of the landing site which was 559 feet agl) before a climb was initiated. The PF then stated he “could see some lights” and began to continue the right turn onto north at or below an airspeed of 60 knots. The flight track during the first unsuccessful attempt to locate the landing site. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The altitude remained approximately constant at less than 200 feet “above gently rising ground” but still less than 100 feet above the elevation of the landing site. The turn onto a northerly track was completed with a climb to a recorded 883 feet QNH (324 feet above the landing site altitude). During this climb, the PM called that they were “losing visuals” and a descent back to 750 feet QNH was subsequently made with the helicopter beginning to “accelerate and descend rapidly towards a hill 500 metres ahead”. As this sharply rising ground was approached with a groundspeed of 35 knots, the PF called that they were “just coming over a house” and the PM responded with “yeah roger ... got the trees”. The PF then said “where’s the house”, the PM replied saying “it should be directly on the nose” and the PF said “no it’s not” as another HTAWS ‘ALTITUDE’ alert occurred. There was no recorded response to this and the helicopter continued to fly towards the rising ground, descending to within 28 feet of the ground as it passed over “trees beside a house”. Unknown to the crew, the landing site was about ¾ nm to the west of their position. A witness in the house over flown by the helicopter subsequently stated that around the time it occurred, “there was low cloud, poor visibility and drizzle”. A continued search for the landing site was unsuccessful and the PF was recorded as saying “where’s the landing site”. When the PM responded with “I’m looking, can’t see it”, the PF announced “err ok we are going around”. The illustration below shows the ground track around this time in detail. Editor's Note: The absence of any HTAWS activation when passing close to the house, trees or terrain is explained by the low forward speed which would have meant that the HTAWS forward-looking mode, which initially annunciates a ‘CAUTION TERRAIN/ OBSTACLE’ alert (and if clearance ahead reduces further follows this with a continuous ‘WARNING TERRAIN/OBSTACLE’) would have been inactive. Also, the excessive terrain closure rate (Mode 2), which gives a ‘TERRAIN’ caution followed by a ‘PULL UP’ warning if appropriate, is automatically inhibited when the forward looking mode is active and has “high integrity”. A detailed ground track as the helicopter approached 28 feet agl close to a house. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The PF then commenced an emergency climb by rapidly raising the collective