and increasing the engine torque to 131% and a ‘low rotor’ warning was annunciated. The pitch attitude of the helicopter remained below the horizon and after initially achieving a positive rate of climb, this ceased and it flew level at less than 300 feet agl until the PM prompted the PF to raise the nose significantly above the horizon which achieved a high rate of climb at negligible airspeed. It was noted that the HTAWS ALTITUDE call value not reset following the emergency climb “which indicates that the pilots did not complete the go-around checks”. The helicopter was levelled off at just over 2,200 feet QNH (1,500 feet agl) and began a right turn onto east whilst accelerating and becoming stabilised and the PF called “visual”. Soon after this, the PM stated that he was “visual with the ground”. It was now night and the PF then confirmed that he intended to attempt another approach to the landing site using the ‘Dragon GL3’ visual approach aid (see under ‘Discussion’ below) which he had set up at the landing site and that if this was unsuccessful, they would divert back to Birmingham. He subsequently stated that he had “recognised that a significant over-torque had occurred during the emergency climb and as a result, he was concerned for the serviceability of the helicopter and sought to land as soon as possible”. The PF then flew the helicopter to a point 5 nm south of the landing site, since the GL3 had been set up for an approach from that direction. He declined another suggestion from the PM to make use of the automation capability. Initially, this second approach "varied 45° either side of the approach track of 010º (M) as the PF sought to avoid cloud”. The PM gave deviation calls as well as expressing doubts about continuing and when 3 nm from the landing site, suggested returning to Birmingham. The PF responded with “I’m just going to….err….try one more mile” but passing 800 feet agl, he stated “it’s not going to happen” with the PM agreeing and the PF then saying “we are going around”. However, the PF took no action to commence a go-around and the PM called that they were descending at 1,000 fpm and the pitch attitude was -10°. This prompted the PF to level off upon which the PM then stated that he was “not happy with this” which the Captain acknowledged but without taking any relevant action. Ten seconds later, 1.1 nm from the landing site and approximately 500 feet agl (and 1000 feet QNH) the PF called, “there’s the landing light, there’s the landing light” upon which the approach was stabilised and a landing followed two minutes later. It was considered that the familiarity of the PF with the landing site and surrounding area was likely to have influenced the extent of pre-flight planning and threat assessment prior to departure for what would need to be a VMC approach to the landing site. It was