A particularly comprehensive Field Investigation was carried by the UK AAIB. Relevant information was downloaded from the CVFDR and the EGPWS. The two-pilot crew were both of Captain rank who routinely flew together and would alternate in command and as PF/PM. They often operated away from base together for several days at a time. The 54 year-old Captain in command and also acting as PF on the investigated flight was also the operator’s Managing Director, Accountable Manager and Safety Manager as well as being the company’s “principal point of contact” for the S92 client for whom the flight was being undertaken. He had been with the operator in a management role for 8 years and only flew the S92. He had a total of 6,200 hours flying experience which included 441 hours on type which had been accumulated at a rate of “less than 100 hours each year”. The Captain acting as PM had no management responsibilities and had a total of 732 hours flying experience on type of which 250 hours had been accumulated the previous year. Both pilots had originally served as military helicopter pilots flying the Sea King. Prior to joining the operator, the commander had also flown offshore and onshore mainly in the AS365N but also with time on other types including the EC155 and AS355. Prior to joining the operator, the Captain acting as PM had gained previous S92 experience in the offshore oil and gas sector and in onshore HEMS (Helicopter Emergency Medical Services), and corporate operations. Both pilots had been operating for several days from the destination private landing site located in the village of Foxcote, Warwickshire. They stated that they had both been “properly rested” after flying the previous day. On the day of the investigated flight they were to meet nine passengers who would be arriving by fixed-wing aircraft at Birmingham Airport and transfer them to the private landing site. The crew positioned the helicopter from the private landing site to Birmingham airport with same pilot in command and acting as PF as would be the case for the subsequent return flight. The area weather conditions for the 20 minute flight were assessed as having been a cloud base of 1,000 feet QNH and 5 km visibility and the PF flew a manual ILS into Birmingham. The ETA of the passengers’ flight was 1710 which was met and the intention was to complete their flight to the private landing site in daylight (sunset was at 1716) since a VFR approach would be necessary there in relatively poor visibility. The crew recognised that this would be challenging even with a quick transfer of the passengers and to cover the possibility that the weather prevented a landing, arrangements to divert to Wellesbourne Mountford were made and the landing site estate manager advised accordingly. Whilst waiting for the passengers to board, the pilots discussed the plan and the PF Captain expressed increasing anxiety about the chances of completing the flight in daylight, remarking that