are not suitable for visual flight. ▪ Off-Aerodrome Landings - Stabilised Approaches There is no regulatory requirement for helicopter operators to establish stabilised approach criteria for visual approaches despite the fact that such approach procedures can be highly beneficial, especially (but not only) at night. The Investigation concluded that, as in this case, recognition that a flight path is becoming / has become unstable is often delayed beyond the point where corrective action is required. ▪ Degraded Visual Environments The broader hazards of flying a helicopter in one or more of reduced visibility, low cloud and declining light levels are well recognised as a factor in unstable helicopter flight paths but guidance on managing such hazards is not offered. ▪ Use of GPS-based navigation systems These systems are capable of displaying current position relative to a desired position but reference to such information, as in the case of the first approach and its close proximity to buildings and terrain, is likely to be poor when crew attention is fully focused on maintaining visual references. ▪ HTAWS Altitude Alerting The necessary facility to change altitude alerting value in the HTAWS or other radio altimeter-based system in helicopters provides pilots, as in this case, with the option to set the alert to a value which is 100 feet below the minimum height for VFR flight in daylight in circumstances where it would not be possible to maintain the required separation from any person, vehicle or structure. It was also noted that the fact that the PF Captain indicated that pilots “considered some altitude and terrain alerts a nuisance, creating a distraction and providing no benefit” was a result of the setting of alert values which were either inappropriate for the phase of flight or not consistent with available SOPs. ▪ Barometric Altitude Alerting The opportunity to include a procedure for use of the available barometric altitude alerting system in the [[OM]] was not availed of yet setting alerts at pre-determined en route and approach minima for visual flight provides an additional barrier to inadvertent descent below those minima. ▪ Onshore PinS (Point in Space) operationsGNSS-based PinS operations enable helicopters to conduct flight in IMC to or from a PinS abeam the aerodrome or landing site and the helicopter then flies to or from the PinS visually. It was noted that the UK CAA accepts that the helicopter IFR operations are limited to the use of procedures designed for fixed-wing aircraft and in general many available helicopter landing sites lack ground navigation aids hence the potential role for PinS procedures. ▪ Helicopter Flight Data Monitoring (HFDM) Operators are expected to have methods to detect actions contrary to their existing SOPs, breaches of the Rules of the Air and unstabilised approaches but there are no UK or European requirements which indicate how such risks, either actual or predicted by trending should be identified. It was noted that the CAA has noted the benefits of regulatory requirements HFDM which apply to offshore helicopters and large