also concluded that the decision to attempt to reach the landing site in the prevailing weather conditions and under time pressure indicated that “the crew felt under pressure to conduct the flight, but may not have recognised this pressure or the effect it had on their decisions”. In the case of the PF Captain, this pressure was likely to have been “aggravated by the combination of his operational and client-facing roles” which was liable to increase his focus on achieving the operator’s commercial objectives whilst diminishing his ability to make safety-focused decisions in marginal weather conditions. The landing site lacked any significant cultural lighting as did the area where the closest terrain proximity occurred during the unsuccessful first approach. On request, the UK Meteorological Office calculated that the light level in the vicinity of the landing sight would have been 457 millilux when the helicopter left Birmingham, 110 millilux at 1740 just before 28 feet agl was recorded and 52 millilux at 1745, just after the emergency climb had been commenced. For comparison with good night conditions (night was from 1746) , a full moon on a clear night was stated to provide a light level of approximately 250 millilux. The available evidence suggested that the extent to which the PM had felt able to challenge the operational decisions of the PF had been limited. It was noted in this context that whilst the OM stated that the company “would support the decision of a pilot not to fly, there was no formal process for actively challenging a decision to fly”. The unstable flight path which characterised both approaches towards the landing site was considered to be a classic illustration of the challenges of operating in a degraded visual environment, of the importance of avoiding such circumstances in the first place but if they cannot be avoided, identifying and actively managing the threats arising, using automation to deliver platform stability and ensuring training to transition safely to instrument flight. The PF Captain’s reluctance to use any of the available automation capability was, according to his subsequent statement, that he was “concerned to maintain his manual flying skills, mindful of his limited flying currency”. The portable ‘Dragon GL3’ visual approach aid which the PF Captain stated that he intended to use for the second night approach to the landing site was, according to the aircraft operator, “only expected to be used in VMC” but its use otherwise was not prohibited in the OM. The findings of the Investigation led to a series of observations in respect of various aspects of the conduct of the flight including, in summary, the following: ▪ Observing the Rules of the Air when landing Rules of the Air in many jurisdictions, including the UK and those subject to the EASA regulatory regime, allow descent below the otherwise applicable minimum height. Pilots planning to use this landing exception to descend below the relevant minimum height before reaching the destination increase their risk of operating in circumstances that