“we are really up against it”. The flight took off from Birmingham, where the lowest cloud was being reported as BKN (broken) at 800 feet aal, at 1730. The illustration on the ‘Sky Demon’ chart below shows the planned flight path and the flight path actually flown to save time. During the climb, when the PM prompted the PF to call for the HTAWS radio altimeter alert value to be set to 500 feet, he received the response to set it to 400 feet. The helicopter then levelled at around 950 feet QNH which at that point was equivalent to marginally above 500 feet agl. It was noted that although the helicopter was fitted with a barometric altitude alert independent of the radio altimeter altitude alert incorporated in the HTAWS, there was no associated SOP and no such alerts were recorded during the flight which indicated that the value set was either above or below all the altitudes flown. The planned ground track (pink) and actual one (blue) with the latter against the terrain below. [Reproduced from the Official Report} As the flight reached the VRP at the exit from the Birmingham CTR (control zone), the PF advised the PM that he was going to route direct and requested him to update the flight plan in the FMS in order to try and get in “whilst its daylight”. Almost immediately, an HTAWS ‘ALTITUDE’ alert was annunciated several times as the helicopter passed over rising ground. The helicopter flew just below the cloud base and was obliged to descend steadily from the originally achieved 950 feet QNH whilst remaining mainly above 500 feet agl over lowering terrain. On reaching a position about 10 nm north of the landing site, the initial approach checks and an approach briefing were completed and the PF remarked that the weather was “marginal”. Continuing south southeast to position for a westerly approach to the landing site, at about 5 nm from it, a descent was commenced, the airspeed was reduced and the landing checks were commenced. The PF asked the PM to delay resetting the HTAWS altitude alert value until they were visual with the landing site. Then, while they were still doing the landing checks, the HTAWS ‘ALTITUDE alert was again annunciated and acknowledged by the PM. Soon after the landing checks had been completed, the PM stated that the landing site was 2½ nm to the right and another HTAWS ALTITUDE alert occurred to which the PF responded by asking the PM to reset the altitude alert value to 150 feet agl, an action which was stated by the Investigation to have been “in accordance with the operator’s SOPs”. Just before the right turn onto a westerly track was commenced, the HTAWS ‘look ahead’ mode generated a ‘CAUTION TERRAIN’ alert. The PF acknowledged this and responded that he could see the ground and asked the PM to update the FMS to show a direct track to the landing site. As the turn began, an