levels likely prior to commencement of an approach. The Investigation Findings included the formal documentation of six Contributing Factors as follows: After overwriting the hold speed in the flight monitoring computer, the flight crew did not identify the need to re-evaluate the hold speed for the higher than expected hold level.. Prior to entering the hold, the aircraft’s speed reduced below both the selected and minimum manoeuvring speeds. The crew did not identify that the aircraft was operating below these speeds.. The reduced speed coincided with the turn to enter the holding pattern and the level capture. These factors resulted in pre-aerodynamic stall buffeting and probable stick shaker activation.. The pilot flying attempted to arrest the rate of descent prior to completing the approach to stall actions. The pilot monitoring did not identify and call out the incomplete approach to stall recovery actions. These combined actions led to pilot induced oscillations and further stick shaker activations.. The operator provided flight crew with limited training and guidance in stall prevention and recovery techniques at high altitudes or with engine power above idle. [Safety Issue]. The passenger in seat 63C was not wearing a seatbelt at the time of the stick shaker activations.. One other Safety Factor was also identified as: The operator provided flight crew with limited training and guidance relating to the need for crew to re-evaluate their holding speed for a change in altitude (specifically above flight level 200) [Safety Issue]. Safety Action taken by Qantas Airways whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included: commencing the retraining of all their pilots in stall warning recovery scenarios using amended recurrent training scenarios which introduced more complex stall warning recovery events.. amending the content of their Boeing 747-400 FCTM relating to hold speed selection to provide enhanced holding pattern information and updating ground school training to ensure it adequately covered holding pattern training.. reviewing crew training and guidance provided for pilots of other Boeing aircraft types in its fleet (the 787 and the 737) and making changes to incorporate more complex stall warning recovery events as well as amending the content of the 787 and 737 FCTMs on hold speed selection.. These actions were collectively considered to have effectively addressed the Safety Issues identified by the Investigation. The Final Report was released on 27 March 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.