the flight deck on the basis of an inspection of this compartment, the warning appeared to be false and was suspected to be a result of damage to the compartment during the upset. During the remainder of the flight, there were six more lavatory smoke warnings which the cabin crew determined were also false and the remainder of the flight was completed without further event. The analysis made by the Investigation focused on the Captain’s repeated failure to follow the applicable stall recovery procedure - which resulted in recovery not being achieved until the fourth oscillation and after an upset which was sufficient to cause occupant injuries. It was also concerned at the First Officer’s failure to identify and call out the Captain’s incomplete actions as required by the stall recovery procedure. However, it also noted that pilot simulator training for stall recovery at Qantas did not include any scenarios that approximated the conditions experienced in the investigated event i.e. stick shaker activation whilst manoeuvring at altitude. It was noted that Qantas’ own investigation after the event had drawn similar conclusions, having concluded that stick shaker recovery training was being conducted using unrealistic scenarios which provided “limited exposure to the complexity of the required recovery actions at altitude in real life scenarios” and that adopting more realistic training scenarios was likely to provide increased exposure to “the relationship between control column movement and true airspeed” thereby reducing the risk of “over-controlling events brought about by startle effect”. The Investigation also noted a 2013 ATSB Research Report ‘Stall Warnings in high capacity aircraft - The Australian context’ which whilst finding that stall warnings occurring in normal operations were normally low risk events which are effectively managed, the avoidance of higher risk stall warning events requires that pilots remain aware of angle of attack and airspeed at all times. In respect of the crew’s failure to re-evaluate the appropriate speed for a hold conducted at a higher level than initially programmed, the flight crew stated that “in practice they used the flaps up manoeuvring speed and then added an arbitrary buffer when selecting a hold speed”. This was not only contrary to available FCTM guidance but was also not recommended by any other operator or included in any manufacturer guidance on the procedure or how to calculate the appropriate buffer size. The FCTM content provided a way to approximate holding speeds pending the look up of more accurate ones in the QRH which in the case of holding speeds above FL200, stated that “recommended holding speeds can be approximated by adding 100 knots to the calculated flaps 30 landing reference speed”. This method would have produced an approximate holding speed of 243 knots. It was also found that neither pilot was “aware of the function or use of the best speed in the hold page of the FMC” and that Qantas had no documented training exercises of a holding pattern conducted above FL 200 and holds were usually linked to the lower