result of the Captain’s actions was a very slight airspeed increase and cessation of the buffet as the descent continued. As the aircraft descended through its cleared level of FL 220, the Captain moved the control column aft in order to prevent further descent and four seconds later, the stick shaker again activated briefly. The Captain again responded with a forward movement of the control column and a slight increase in thrust which stopped the stick shaker. The aircraft continued descending but as it passed FL218, the Captain again moved the control column aft and this caused a third stick shaker activation which he stopped with another forward movement of the control column. At about this time, it was noted that the seatbelt sign was selected on. The FDR data then showed that over the ensuing nine seconds, the Captain had disengaged the A/T, increased thrust to above 90% N1 and changed the selected speed to 252 KIAS. This resulted in the oscillations reducing, the speed increasing and the aircraft levelling off at FL 214 as the speed continued increasing through 238 KCAS towards the new selected speed of 252 KIAS. At about this time, the First Officer alerted the Captain to the significant decent below the cleared level and on being informed, ATC issued an immediate re-clearance to FL210. The AP was then re-engaged in VNAV/LNAV modes with 21,000 feet set on the MCP - but as the altitude selector had not been activated, 22,000 feet remained as the target altitude and the aircraft began a climb back to FL 220 which resulted in ATC asking for confirmation that the aircraft was indeed descending to FL 210. The crew responded that they were and re-set the correct 21,000 ft target altitude as they “re-joined the BETTY holding pattern”. The Investigation subsequently found that hold entry had occurred with a selected speed 15 knots below that required. It was found that although no actual loss of prescribed separation had occurred during the upset, the sequence of “pilot-induced oscillations” had resulted in six of the cabin crew, including the CSM, who were routinely preparing the cabin for arrival, striking the cabin ceiling before falling back into seats or onto the floor, with three of them sustaining minor injury as a result. A passenger in one of the rear lavatory compartments also struck the cabin ceiling which caused minor injury and damage to the compartment fittings and another unsecured passenger towards the rear of the passenger cabin was also injured. Vertical acceleration during the upset was recorded as varying within the range 1.45g to 0.09g. Once the aircraft trajectory had stabilised on the (first) outbound leg of the holding pattern and the CSM was coordinating the cabin response, a lavatory smoke warning was activated on the flight deck and the crew asked ATC for a “priority landing”. The cabin crew were able to confirm that this warning had originated from one of the rear lavatory compartments and the CSM then reported to