An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant recorded flight data was available from the FDR and the QAR. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF at the time of the event under investigation, had a total of 24,556 hours flying experience of which over 10,000 hours were on type. The First Officer had a total of 16,400 hours flying experience of which over 5,000 hours were on type and the Second Officer had a total of over 8,555 hours flying experience of which over 5,000 hours were on type. The Second Officer was occupying a supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck at the time of the upset and passively monitoring proceedings. It was established that as the descent towards destination began, the crew had anticipated that they would be required to take up the hold at waypoint ‘BETTY’ at around FL 150/FL 160 and therefore input a target holding speed appropriate to that altitude of 225 KIAS into the FMC. However, as the aircraft got nearer to the ‘BETTY’ waypoint, ATC instructed it to hold there at FL220 but the crew did not then adjust the target hold speed to correspond to this higher-than-expected holding level - and subsequently stated that “they were not aware of a higher speed requirement for holding above FL 200”. As the descent towards the hold continued, airspeed reduced below both the 225 KIAS target speed and the PFD-indicated minimum manoeuvring speed. At this point, the Captain had been reviewing the destination approach plates whilst the First Officer was looking outside and “attempting to identify aircraft traffic in the vicinity of the holding pattern”. Neither of them noticed the reducing speed and the Second Officer subsequently stated that he had seen the speed reducing towards 225 KIAS but not below it. FDR data showed that the aircraft crossed the ‘BETTY’ waypoint at 222 KCAS whilst descending through FL 227 with idle thrust set and then began a right turn to commence the hold. As the turn continued, the aircraft descended through FL 222 and, as the AP prepared to level the aircraft at FL 220 and the speed reduced to 220 KCAS, the bank angle increased to 32° and pre-stall buffeting was followed by a brief stick shaker activation. The AP was disconnected, probably by the Captain, who then made a forward movement of the control column and slackened the bank angle. However, because of a desire to stay within the protected airspace of the holding pattern, he did not roll to wings level as per the applicable stall recovery procedure and neither did he disconnect the A/T as required by the procedure, although he did advance the thrust to just over 70% N1. The First Officer observed this response and subsequently stated that he had been “satisfied that the appropriate actions had been undertaken” although he had not identified, and therefore not called out, that the stall recovery procedure had not been completed. The