Best practice, as embedded in the ASSIST principle, could be followed: (A - Acknowledge; S - Separate, S - Silence; I - Inform, S - Support, T - Time). The loss of orientation might not be immediately obvious. Clarify with the pilot the actual status, especially when there is a doubtful, vague or non-standard RTF used to inform the loss of orientation. Advise the aircraft to climb to the minimum safe altitude while maintaining the flight in VMC. Prevention of CFIT has a priority but the ATCO shall avoid giving advice/clearances that will take the VFR flight into IMC for which the pilot may not be licensed. As a rule of thumb, ask the pilot if able to climb at the safe altitude and maintain the flight into VMC.. If it is reported that visual contact with terrain is lost and it cannot be re-established without descending and that there is a risk of collision with terrain, instruct the aircraft crew to climb as necessary, underline the need for urgent action (climb due low altitude/due terrain etc.).. Consult the minimum sector altitude chart and provide information to the pilot about the minimum safe altitudes. Exercise extra caution if the flight is conducted above mountainous terrain and there is a risk of severe turbulence;. Clear all other aircraft in the vicinity of the aircraft in the abnormal situation, providing space for manoeuvres;. Instruct the pilot to squawk 7700;. Consider transferring other aircraft to a different frequency or imposing radio silence. Changing the frequency of an aircraft in an abnormal situation is more likely to result in a communication loss due to the stress experienced by the pilot.. Inform the pilot as necessary about the distance to the nearest suitable aerodrome(s) and landing conditions;. Provide time for the crew to decide on what course of action will be the safest, give time to assess all viable options such as fuel endurance, possibility to return back to the departure aerodrome or to deviate to the most suitable one;. Provide navigational assistance to the crew as necessary by informing of magnetic track and distance to the aerodrome or specific geographical location;. Assist the crew to identify a certain runway as necessary – provide runway magnetic orientation and/or coordinate increase of the runway lights intensity to help the visual acquisition;. In case visual acquisition of the runway is not achieved and it is apparent that the pilot will continue the approach in IFR and/or marginal VMC: Inform the airport emergency services and all concerned parties according to local procedures; Ask if dangerous goods are on board; Ask for number of Persons On Board (POB); Clear RWY according to local instructions; Keep safety strip clear.. Inform the airport emergency services and all concerned parties according to local procedures;. Ask if dangerous goods are on board;. Ask for number of Persons On Board (POB);. Clear RWY according to local instructions;. Keep safety strip clear..