vapour condenses when it enters cooler conditions, for example as it passes into the flight deck or cabin via ducts”. It was also noted that this possibility is compatible with occurrences during sectors with prior exposure to high humidity or rain. This is supported by Airbus’ observation that in this type of event, “the fumes decrease, or in many cases disappear, when the humidity of the air in the cabin decreases at higher cabin altitudes”. It was noted that, due to the failure to eliminate the regular occurrence of unexplained air conditioning-related fumes events on this aircraft type using enhanced maintenance procedures, Airbus has been involved in a significant effort to determine the possible causes of the problem. Analysis of data from operators’ events has led to the general conclusion that “the presence of fumes dissipates at higher altitudes” but whilst the prevalence of fume events has been reduced, they have continued to occur. One enhancement being developed which it is hoped will help to alleviate the problem is enhancements to the ECS filtration system which will be available as a retrofit to aircraft in service. In the meantime, Airbus has issued a SIL to provide background information, mitigations available and best practices on fume events. During the first nine months of 2019, British Airways’ recorded over 500 fume events of varying levels of operational significance on its large fleet of A320 family aircraft. Some of these were identified as having occurred in similar operational circumstances to the event under investigation with similarly inconclusive maintenance investigations following and five of these were considered in detail during the Investigation. Whilst it was accepted that the available evidence in these and other events did not appear to show an obvious single precursor, it was noted that “several common traits” were reported by the crews involved to have been associated with such events: The incidents took place both on the short haul European inter-city flights and with regional flights of less than two hours duration.. The aircraft often arrived in, and stayed for varying periods of time, usually overnight, in damp humid environments with drizzle or rain present.. In many cases the pilots described a faint smell during climb out on departure.. The flights usually continued normally with no signs of any fumes during the cruise phase.. When events occurred, the pilots described the fumes and odours reappearing on descent and in a number of cases at about 4,000 ft AGL in stable flight.. The presence of fumes can have a rapid and adverse effect on flight crew.. The crews described similar smells and odours, such as sweaty socks, manure and farmyard smells, which were unpleasant and distinctive.. The fumes described in these events were invisible.. FDR recordings did not show any correlation between the engine settings or other system selections or settings and the point in the flight at which the fumes appeared.. In most cases the cabin crew were unaware, until they were told, of any fumes or odours; the problem