seemed to be confined to the flight deck.. When the fumes were detected by the cabin crew, they appear to linger in the galley areas.. In those cases, the passengers were usually unaware and unaffected.. In the more severe cases, the fumes prompted the pilots to declare a PAN and go onto oxygen.. The generation of fumes appeared to be transient and dissipated very rapidly, in some cases before landing and in others very shortly after landing.. In most cases when other individuals were given access to the flight deck after landing, they could not detect any smell or odour.. In the small number of cases where those entering the flight deck were initially able to detect something, it did not have any adverse effect on them and seemed to go away very quickly.. There were no detectable traces of condensate, solid compound or dust present in the flight deck afterwards.. The use of the smoke and fumes abnormal and emergency procedures appeared to alleviate, but not completely eradicate, the effects in the main cabin.. The use of aircraft washing fluids, detergents and anti-icing fluids. In most cases washing or anti-icing operations had not been carried out prior to the flights in which the events occurred.. It was also clear that other operators of this type were continuing to experience similar fume events but also that such events were not confined only to the aircraft of the A320 family. Although no sample of the fumes experienced was available and no deductions of their general or exact type were established during hospitalisation of the two pilots, it was observed that the potential consequences of exposure to fumes depends not only on the nature of such fumes but on the individual concerned. The following general remarks on this matter were included in the Official Report: The human olfactory system is extremely sensitive and complex and can detect minute concentrations of airborne compounds; as few as four molecules can give a recognisable smell. The ability of a person to interpret a smell requires a cognitive process and therefore the perceived intensity and the effect of a smell will vary between individuals. When exposed to an unusual or stressful situation a person will experience an unconscious ‘stress’ response based on several factors, including: the context of the event, any prior anticipation of the situation, the perceived level of danger the situation presents and previous experiences of a similar situation. This reaction can produce physiological effects which differ markedly from person to person. For example, the act of cutting up an onion often causes an extreme reaction resulting in excessive tear production, stinging and watering of the eyes. In a kitchen environment where cutting up an onion is quite normal, the affected individual can quickly and easily understand what is happening and, although uncomfortable, it is not a cause for concern. However, if the same adverse stimuli, watering and stinging of the eyes, occurs in a situation that cannot be explained by the context of