the environment, a person will experience an increased level of stress and associated physiological response. It was also noted that the consequence of variable individual responses to particular fume events was - as in the case under investigation - that in any such flight deck event, both the perception of its seriousness and the extent of any immediate consequences from exposure generally varies between two pilots exposed to the same fume event. In this context, evidence from this and many similar previous investigations was that prompt use of an oxygen mask was an important early action for both exposed pilots. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: While it has not been possible to positively identify the compound that was responsible for the fumes and odours experienced in G-EUYB, or any of the other recent events, a number of common factors have been identified: The majority of events occurred after the aircraft had been parked or operated in precipitation.. The fumes become apparent during the later stages of the descent, sometimes preceded by a minor event during the climb phase.. The generation of fumes appears to be transient; they dissipate rapidly and leave no detectable trace.. No link between changes to engine power or changes in other system settings and the generation of fumes was identified.. Safety Action taken in response to this and other recent similar A320 family events was noted as having included the following: Airbus has: Initiated ‘Project FRESH’ to investigate and regularly inform operators of fume event occurrences. Published an In-Service Information paper (Ref ISI 21.00.001.139) setting out all the known aspects of fumes and smoke events and includes the details of a filter and sensor product research and development programme.. Initiated ‘Project FRESH’ to investigate and regularly inform operators of fume event occurrences.. Published an In-Service Information paper (Ref ISI 21.00.001.139) setting out all the known aspects of fumes and smoke events and includes the details of a filter and sensor product research and development programme.. British Airways has: Developed the post-smoke and fume events maintenance procedure. Taken action to ensure that the correct APU start up bleed air selection and shut down procedures are used. Carried out a fleet-wide check to confirm that oxygen masks were correctly stowed and issued a Quality Alert Bulletin to all engineering staff to remind them of the importance of stowing the masks in accordance with the AMM.. Developed the post-smoke and fume events maintenance procedure.. Taken action to ensure that the correct APU start up bleed air selection and shut down procedures are used.. Carried out a fleet-wide check to confirm that oxygen masks were correctly stowed and issued a Quality Alert Bulletin to all engineering staff to remind them of the importance of stowing the masks in accordance with the AMM.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 30 July 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.