situation to the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) over the interphone and was advised that there was no smell in the cabin and that the passengers were “not aware of anything unusual”. The Captain then spoke with RFFS and made a Passenger PA. After the First Officer had briefly removed his oxygen mask to see if the fumes were still present, he advised that they were and the Captain decided to start the APU and shut down both engines and to open the flight deck windows. At this point, the First officer began to feel nauseous and then vomited out of his flight deck side window. Having originally intended that the aircraft would be towed to a parking stand, he then decided that the First Officer needed urgent medical attention and requested that steps be brought to the aircraft. The First Officer went to the forward cabin toilet and continued to vomit and the SCCM entered the flight deck to assist the Captain, reporting that on entering, he had detected what he described as “a chemical smell [...] a clean clinical smell” whilst noting that there was still no smell in the cabin. After brief RFFS confusion as to where the access steps were to be positioned, they were brought to door 1R and fire service personnel, paramedics and a member of the aircraft operator’s engineering team came on board. No fumes were detected and following an assessment, both pilots were taken to hospital and the passengers and cabin crew, none of whom reported any ill effects, were subsequently disembarked using steps and boarded coaches for transport to the terminal. Both pilots were released from hospital later the same day. During comprehensive ground runs, the fumes which had prevailed in the flight deck during the final few minutes of the flight could not be reproduced nor could any lesser fumes occurrence be detected by use of a handheld air testing device. The aircraft was then handed back to the operator for further work utilising engineering Work Packages developed in response to previous fume events on its A320 family aircraft. When all these had been completed with no relevant findings, the aircraft was released to service, following which four further (and less serious) fumes events occurred over the succeeding three months for which no cause could be found. However, it was concluded that the available evidence indicated that it is likely that the fumes in this event were “derivatives of contaminants entering the Environmental Control Systems (ECS)”. These may not necessarily have been comprised of only a single compound but potentially a combination of compounds which having reacted together had then become airborne in the bleed air supplied by the ECS concerned, in this case only by the system which supplies air to the flight deck since the cabin was unaffected. It was also concluded that the fumes in this event may have had “similar traits to hydrocarbon compounds combined with water vapour in low concentration which are liberated as water