It was established that the aircraft had been parked at Zurich overnight after its evening arrival (operated by a different crew) and that, whilst parked, it had rained with the air temperature approximately 13°C. The departure of the aircraft from Zurich for the investigated flight was reported by the crew to have initially been uneventful. It was still raining and cloud was entered at approximately 1,000 feet agl and the subsequent climb was in cloud. Soon after passing FL100, a “slight odour” became apparent on the flight deck. The Captain suspected a galley oven source but the First Officer described it as a “sweaty socks” smell which he stated was similar to smells he had previously noticed on the aircraft type but stronger. The Captain stated that he had been “concerned that they were preconditioned to detect fumes because of (both) their previous experience of fume events and their discussion the evening before”. He therefore suggested that they should wait 30 seconds before taking any action to see if the smell dissipated and after this interval, the smell had gone. The crew reported that their previous experience “suggested that if the smell was going to reoccur it was most likely to occur when thrust was reduced for descent so, during the cruise, they discussed their actions if the smell returned and reviewed the SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE Checklist". They then briefed for a Monitored Approach with the Captain taking control for landing. In fact, the descent took place in clear skies and there was no recurrence of fumes. After a short time in a holding stack, the flight was radar vectored onto the runway 27L ILS LLZ at Heathrow but as the aircraft passed through 4,000 feet QNH fully established, both pilots “detected a sudden, very strong smell”. The Captain described it as having been a “manure smell [...] like a field which had just been muck spread” and commented that the smell had instantly hit him in the back of the throat. The First Officer described the smell as one of “strong sweaty socks” and reported having felt “itchy skin around his eyes and a scratchy throat”. There was no smoke or any obvious source of the smell. Both pilots donned their oxygen masks in turn and, having requested and received an early transfer from APP to TWR, the Captain then declared a ‘PAN’ to TWR reporting flight deck fumes and requesting a priority landing. In response, TWR instructed the two aircraft ahead and the one behind to go around in sequence. The Captain decided to use autoland and advised TWR that after landing, they would exit to the parallel taxiway and then stop to await an inspection from the emergency services. Once the aircraft had stopped, the after landing checklist and the initial actions of the SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE checklist were completed. The First Officer then made initial contact with the attending emergency services whilst the Captain gave a ‘NITS’ brief on the