possible be offered the most direct routing. Instructions included in clearances relating to levels shall consist of: cruising level(s) or, for cruise climb, a range of levels, and, if necessary, the point to which the clearance is valid with regard to the level(s);. levels at which specified significant points are to be crossed, when necessary;. the place or time for starting climb or descent, when necessary;. the rate of climb or descent, when necessary;. detailed instructions concerning departure or approach levels, when necessary.. Standard clearances for departing and arriving aircraft are described in a dedicated article. The flight crew shall read back to the air traffic controller safety-related parts of ATC clearances and instructions which are transmitted by voice. The following items shall always be read back: ATC route clearances;. clearances and instructions to enter, land on, take off from, hold short of, cross, taxi and backtrack on any runway;. runway-in-use, altimeter settings, SSR codes, level instructions, heading and speed instructions and transition levels.. Other clearances or instructions, including conditional clearances, shall be read back or acknowledged in a manner to clearly indicate that they have been understood and will be complied with. The controller shall listen to the readback to ascertain that the clearance or instruction has been correctly acknowledged by the flight crew and shall take immediate action to correct any discrepancies revealed by the readback. Unless specified by the appropriate ATS authority, voice readback of CPDLC messages shall not be required. When issuing a clearance covering a requested change in route or level, the exact nature of the change shall be included in the clearance. When traffic conditions will not permit clearance of a requested change, the word “UNABLE” shall be used. When warranted by circumstances, an alternative route or level should be offered. When an alternative route is offered and accepted by the flight crew, the amended clearance issued shall describe the route to the point where it joins the previously cleared route, or to the destination (if the aircraft will not re-join the previous route).