Clearances are issued solely for expediting and separating air traffic and are based on known traffic conditions which affect safety in aircraft operation. The traffic conditions include: aircraft in the air;. aircraft on the manoeuvring area;. vehicles on the manoeuvring area;. obstructions not permanently installed on the manoeuvring area.. ATC clearances do not constitute authority to violate any applicable regulations for promoting the safety of flight operations or for any other purpose; neither do clearances relieve a pilot-in-command of any responsibility whatsoever in connection with a possible violation of applicable rules and regulations. If an air traffic control clearance is not considered suitable by the pilot-in-command of an aircraft, the flight crew may request and, if practicable, obtain an amended clearance. ATC clearances are issued for controlled flights only, i.e.: When a flight plan specifies that the initial portion of a flight will be uncontrolled, the pilot needs to obtain a clearance from the relevant ATC unit before entering controlled airspace.. When a flight plan specifies that the first portion of a flight will be subject to ATC, and that the subsequent portion will be uncontrolled, the aircraft is normally cleared to the point at which the controlled flight terminates.. For flights through intermediate stops, the initial clearance limit is be the first destination aerodrome and new clearances are to be issued for each subsequent portion of flight. By prior arrangement between ATC units and the operators however it is possible to clear the flight through intermediate stops.. A flight is subject to ATC clearance depending on the flight rules and airspace class, i.e.: IFR flights are subject to ATC clearance in airspace classes A, B, C, D and E.. VFR flights are subject to ATC clearance in airspace classes B, C and D. They are not permitted in class A airspace and are not controlled in class E.. ATC clearances (except departure and arrival clearances) contain the following items in the order listed: aircraft identification;. clearance limit;. route of flight;. level(s) of flight for the entire route or part thereof and changes of levels if required;. any necessary instructions or information on other matters (e.g. SSR transponder operation, approach or departure manoeuvres, the time of expiry of the clearance, etc.).. The clearance limit is described by specifying the name of the appropriate significant point, or aerodrome, or controlled airspace boundary. When prior coordination has been effected with units under whose control the aircraft will subsequently come, or if there is reasonable assurance that it can be effected a reasonable time prior to their assumption of control, the clearance limit shall be the destination aerodrome or, if not practicable, an appropriate intermediate point, and coordination shall be expedited so that a clearance to the destination aerodrome may be issued as soon as possible. The route of flight is to be detailed in each clearance when deemed necessary. Subject to airspace constraints, ATC workload and traffic density, and provided coordination can be effected in a timely manner, an aircraft should whenever