An Investigation was carried out in accordance with Annex 13 principles by a local team appointed by the Turks and Caicos Civil Aviation Department which, under the terms of a pre-existing Memorandum of Understanding, included two UK AAIB Inspectors. No Flight Data Recorder (FDR) or Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) was required to be fitted to the accident aircraft and a CVR which had remained in the aircraft since acquisition from a previous owner and was recovered was found not to be in working order. It was established that although the aircraft was principally used by the Operator to provide scheduled passenger services within the Islands, in the case of the accident flight, it was transporting a private party free of charge and so was considered by the Operator to be a private flight. A public transport flight at night would have required two pilots and upon examination of the locally applicable regulations, it was found that the flight had, in fact, been a public transport flight. It was noted that soon after takeoff, the aircraft had been seen to start a turn to the right, which was consistent with its routing to Grand Turk but the aircraft reached an abnormally large angle of bank and began a descent which continued until it crashed. It was noted that the aircraft fuselage had come to rest comparatively intact, although inverted and that site evidence indicated that the aircraft had struck the water in a nominally upright attitude at only a moderate rate of descent but with relatively high forward speed. Detailed examination of the wreckage and the circumstances of the accident led the Investigation to conclude that the aircraft had been structurally intact and probably under control when it struck the surface with both engines producing power throughout the short flight and at the time of impact. It transpired that most of the passengers had remained unaware of the impending crash. The circumstances of the accident suggested to the Investigation that the pilot became spatially disorientated to the extent that the aircraft diverged from its intended flight path and reached an irrecoverable situation. It was considered that prevailing environmental conditions were conducive to a disorientation event and a postmortem toxicological examination also showed that the pilot had a level of blood alcohol which, although below the prescribed limit, was significant in terms of piloting an aircraft and would have made him more prone to disorientation. The Investigation followed the following general reasoning in reaching its conclusion about the circumstances which led to the accident: “The available evidence, which shows that a significant change in aircraft attitude occurred late in the accident sequence, strongly suggests that the pilot was in control of the aircraft when it struck the surface, and was taking appropriate recovery action. Some conclusions may be drawn from this: the aircraft was controllable; the pilot was physically able to control it and was so doing; and he probably had sufficient information from the flight instruments, alone, to make correct control