inputs. The event which caused the actual and intended flight paths to diverge was not catastrophic. There were no unusual engine or other noises in the cabin, no particularly unusual forces were experienced by the aircraft occupants and there were probably no warning lights or sounds in the cockpit. Together with the lack of obvious concern on the part of the pilot as the flight path diverged, this indicates a subtle event or situation which developed unchecked until recognised by the pilot at a late stage, and even then possibly not fully. It was not possible to rule out a subtle technical malfunction as a contributory factor, but the weight of evidence indicated that the pilot retained sufficient reliable information from his flight instruments to prevent or correct the attitude deviation which ultimately led to the accident. Similarly, it was not possible to rule out a subtle but transient medical condition which may have interfered with the pilot’s normal functioning, although there was only circumstantial evidence to support the possibility. The circumstances of the accident strongly suggest that the pilot became spatially disorientated. It was immediately after takeoff, it was dark with no reliable outside references and the pilot was operating as single crew. He had completed the after takeoff checks shortly before, which may have been an initiating distraction. It was probable that he had consumed alcohol at some time before the flight and his blood alcohol level, although not excessive, would have made him more prone to becoming disorientated. Although very experienced, the pilot had a potential weakness in his instrument scan technique. This and the turbulence the aircraft apparently encountered could also have contributed to any disorientation. Spatial disorientation accidents are frequently fatal, as the pilot does not recognise the danger or is unable to effect a recovery. In this case the pilot did start a recovery and appears to have been taking appropriate recovery actions when the aircraft struck the surface. This had the effect of reducing the descent rate and placing the aircraft in an almost level attitude at impact. The pilot’s actions, although initiated too late to avoid the accident, lessened the impact damage and helped preserve the fuselage structure relatively intact, which probably prevented greater loss of life." The following Causal Factors were identified: The aircraft adopted an excessive degree of right bank soon after takeoff. This led to a descending, turning flight path which persisted until the aircraft was too low to make a safe recovery.. The pilot probably became spatially disorientated and was unable to recognise or correct the situation in time to prevent the accident.. Contributory Factors were also identified: The environmental conditions were conducive to a spatial disorientation event.. The pilot had probably consumed alcohol prior to the flight, which made him more prone to becoming disorientated.. The flight was operated single-pilot when two pilots were required under applicable regulations. The presence of a second pilot would have provided a significant measure of protection against the effects of the