the cockpit was not evident”. The Investigation could find “no clear reason for the misidentification” of the failed engine other than “a complete deviation from the operator’s SOPs and failure to apply the CRM”. A review of the relevant pilot training and assessment procedures at SA Airlink did not identify any deviation from their specification or any “known training issues”. It was noted that the aircraft commander had been promoted to the rank of Captain just two weeks prior to the accident and that the First Officer had been issued with an ATPL 16 days prior to the accident. The Investigation determined the Probable Cause of the Accident as: “Engine failure after takeoff followed by inappropriate crew response, resulting in the loss of both lateral and directional control, the misidentification of the failed engine, and subsequent shutdown of the remaining serviceable engine”.. In addition, Contributing Factors were identified as: Separation of the second-stage turbine seal plate rim. Failure of the Captain and First Officer to implement any crew resource management procedures as prescribed in the Operator’s Training Manual. The crew’s failure to follow the correct after take-off engine failure procedures as prescribed in the AFM.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: That the SACAA conducts a comprehensive audit of compliance with all aspects of its Air Operator Certificate requirements, including its training procedures and assessments of the operator involved. This recommendation was actioned by SACAA and a satisfactory action plan, which was implemented, was submitted by the operator to SACAA.. That the SACAA conducts a comprehensive audit of the compliance with all. aspects of engine inoperative training at flight schools and that more emphasis is placed on simulator training. That the Federal Aviation Administration (Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)) should require Honeywell Aerospace to expedite efforts to produce an engineering solution to the problem of second-stage turbine rotating air seal failures on Honeywell TPE331-14G/H engines.. The Final Report of the Investigation CA 12-12a was published on 23 February 2006.