An Investigation was carried out by the Accident and Incident Investigation Division (AIID) of the South African CAA. Both the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) were recovered from the wreckage and successfully read out at the UK AAIB. Both contained a full record of the accident flight. It was established that the First Officer had been PF and that the positioning cabin crew member had occupied the flight deck jump-seat. It was found that during the take-off roll of the accident aeroplane, the pilots of another aircraft on the ground at Durban had seen “smoke pouring from (its) right engine” but had been reluctant to suggest a rejected take off because “they felt that they might be blamed had (this) gone wrong”. Instead, they had asked the TWR controller whether the aircraft was aware of the smoke and by the time the controller responded, the accident aircraft was already becoming airborne. Recorded data showed that the right hand engine failed fully during rotation but that this was subsequently followed by a power reduction on the left hand engine to 80% torque as the aircraft climbed through about 480 feet. This action appeared to have been “the result of a misidentification and (attempted) shutdown of the engine”. When this torque setting was then increased back to 104%, it was found that “both lateral and directional control was lost because aileron and rudder deflections (made) were too small”. Shortly after that the aircraft began to descend and subsequently struck the ground. The total time from start of the take-off roll until ground impact was just under two minutes. It was verified by means of a teardown examination that the left hand engine had remained serviceable throughout the flight. An examination of the right hand engine showed that it had experienced a pre-impact separation of the second-stage turbine seal plate which had created an imbalance of the power section-rotation which led to a fatigue fracture of the turbine bearing oil-supply tube and subsequent damage to the turbine bearing. This bearing damage had caused the power section centreline positioning to be lost so that “turbine efficiency proportional to the ability of the engine to produce positive torque to the propeller” was lost. The initiation of this failure sequence was attributed to the separation of the second-stage turbine seal plate rim which it was considered had most likely occurred following power setting for take off. It was found that the engine failure sequence established appeared to be the thirteenth known similar failure for the engine type and application including one on another SA Airlink aircraft after which the crew had been able to successfully reject the take off. The Investigation was concerned to find that the seal plate life at which this failure had been occurring appeared to be decreasing. Although the accident aircraft pilots had received Crew Resource Management training, it was concluded that “in this accident the CRM process failed the crew, because interpersonal communication, leadership, and decision-making in