The majority of rotary wing ditchings, especially those carried out in hostile environments such as the North Sea or off Newfoundland in Canada will be those of transport helicopters or SAR support for those and other operations where the helicopter involved has type certification which relates to ditching. Such helicopters will include a number of Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) responses to malfunctions which, although power will still be available require “Land Immediately rather than “Land as soon as possible”. The following generic remarks are focused on this scenario rather than the wider case because it predominates in respect of both survivable and fatal accidents on account of the high proportion of risk exposure which it represents. Always bear in mind that there is much to be learned from the investigation reports which usually follow both ditchings and survivable water impacts. Some of these may be found in a listing of helicopter accident and serious incident reports. Whilst there are many variables in any evolving incident, a controlled “power on” ditching will be considerably easier than a "power off" autorotation to the sea; an autorotation to an angry sea in the dark needs immediate transition to trained automatic actions, as time is extremely limited. Ultimately, success will be determined by the rigorous and comprehensive training that should be undertaken on a regular basis. It cannot be stressed enough that thorough and ongoing training is the key to survival in these (and most) circumstances, and that crews should regularly take the opportunity to discuss situations and procedures when possible. Few emergencies ever go according the script, and ditchings are no different. The priority should be, as always, “fly the aircraft”; training and procedure will get you into the water in one piece. Helicopters often fly at relatively low altitudes, and generally a decision to ditch (apart from impending fuel starvation) tends to be reached fairly quickly as the aircraft malfunctions around us. Good CRM and repeated training, is the key. As it is for crew, so it should be for our passengers. Inverted in a hull rapidly filling with water is not the time to ponder the correct way to activate one’s re-breather or open and exit with window/hatch. In an ideal world this should be done without conscious thought, as a direct result once again from good training and a positive will to survive.