An investigation into the accident was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was established that the aircraft had attempted take off with severely underinflated main landing gear tyres, which led to the sudden failure of at least one becoming apparent to the fight crew during the take off roll shortly after V1. Whilst the First Officer indicated that the take off should be continued, the Captain decided to reject the take off and deployed the thrust reversers. The investigation found that the tyre failure had damaged a sensor, which had the effect of causing the thrust reversers to return to their stowed position after deployment. This meant that whilst Captain was trying to stop the airplane by commanding reverse thrust, forward thrust was being provided at near-takeoff power because the thrust reversers were stowed. The Investigation determined that the unintended forward thrust contributed to the severity of the accident outcome. The Investigation also noted a similar uncommanded forward thrust accident that had occurred during landing in 2001 and that whilst the modifications introduced after that accident had provided additional protection against uncommanded forward thrust upon landing, no similar protection had been provided for the rejected takeoff case. The Findings of the Investigation included the following: In the absence of evidence that the airplane was uncontrollable, the captain’s execution of a rejected takeoff for an unknown anomaly after the airplane’s speed had passed V1 was inconsistent with her training and standard operating procedures.. The accident airplane’s uncommanded forward thrust, which accelerated the airplane at a time when the flight crew commanded full reverse thrust to decelerate the airplane, increased the severity of the accident because the uncommanded forward thrust substantially increased the airplane’s runway excursion speed.. All four main landing gear tyres on the airplane were operating while severely underinflated during the takeoff roll, which resulted in the tire failures.. The accident airplane’s insufficient tyre air pressure was due to Global Exec Aviation’s inadequate maintenance.. Learjet’s system safety analysis for and the Federal Aviation Administration’s review of the Learjet 60’s thrust reverser system modification and revised crew procedure were inadequate because they failed to effectively address an unsafe condition for all phases of flight, specifically, uncommanded forward thrust during a rejected takeoff.. The Federal Aviation Administration’s 1993 certification of the Learjet 60 as a changed aeronautical product, which allowed the airplane’s equipment, systems, and installations to conform to some regulations applicable to the original 1966 certification, did not ensure the highest level of safety and allowed for deficiencies that would not likely have been present if the current regulations had applied.. The accident pilots would have been better prepared to recognize the tyre failure and to continue the takeoff if they had received realistic training in a flight simulator on the recognition of and proper response to tire failures occurring during takeoff.. The captain’s indecision in responding to the anomaly and her failure to follow standard operating procedures was the result of a combination of poor