As a result of the Investigation, the NTSB made the following 14 Recommendations to the FAA that they should: Provide pilots and maintenance personnel with information that transport-category aircraft tires can lose up to 5-percent pressure per day, it may take only a few days for such tires to reach an underinflation level below what the aircraft maintenance manual specifies for tire replacement, and the underinflation level that would require tire replacement is not visually detectable. (A-10-46). transport-category aircraft tires can lose up to 5-percent pressure per day,. it may take only a few days for such tires to reach an underinflation level below what the aircraft maintenance manual specifies for tire replacement, and. the underinflation level that would require tire replacement is not visually detectable. (A-10-46). Require that all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91 subpart K operators perform tire pressure checks at a frequency that will ensure that the tires remain inflated to within aircraft maintenance manual-specified inflation pressures. (A-10-47). Require that aircraft maintenance manuals specify, in a readily identifiable and standardized location, required maintenance intervals for tire pressure checks (as applicable to each aircraft). (A-10-48). Allow pilots to perform tire pressure checks on aircraft, regardless of whether the aircraft is operating under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91, Part 91 subpart K, or Part 135. (A-10-49). Require tire pressure monitoring systems for all transport-category airplanes. (A-10-50). Identify the deficiencies in Learjet’s system safety analyses, both for the original Learjet 60 design and for the modifications after the 2001 accident, that failed to properly address the thrust reverser system design flaws related to this accident, and require Learjet to perform a system safety assessment in accordance with 14 Code of Federal Regulations 25.1309 for all other systems that also rely on air-ground signal integrity and ensure that hazards resulting from a loss of signal integrity are appropriately mitigated to fully comply with this regulation. (A-10-51). Revise available safety assessment guidance (such as Advisory Circular 25.1309-1A) for manufacturers to adequately address the deficiencies identified in Safety Recommendation A-10-51,. Require that designated engineering representatives and their Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) mentors are trained on this methodology, and modify FAA design oversight procedures to ensure that manufacturers are performing system safety analyses for all new or modified designs that effectively identify and properly mitigate hazards for all phases of flight, including foreseeable events during those phases (such as a rejected takeoff). (A-10-52). Revise Federal Aviation Administration Order 8110.48 to require that the most current airworthiness regulations related to equipment, systems, and installations (14 Code of Federal Regulations 25.1309) are applied to all derivative design aircraft certificated as changed aeronautical products. (A-10-53). Review the designs of existing derivative design aircraft that were certificated as changed aeronautical products against the requirements of the current revision of 14 Code of Federal Regulations 25.1309 and require modification of the equipment, systems, and installations to fully comply with this regulation. (A-10-54). Define and codify minimum simulator model fidelity requirements for tire