This NTSB Report notes that the 737 MAX 8 is a derivative of the 737-800 NG variant and that it is part of a similar three-part family, the 737 MAX 7, 8, and 9 all of which have CFM LEAP-1B engines, which have a larger fan diameter and a redesigned engine nacelle compared to 737 NG family engines, installed. The Report further notes that: Boeing testing and analysis during the preliminary design stage of the 737 MAX had shown that the LEAP-1B engine and its associated nacelles would produce a nose up pitching moment when the aircraft was operating at high AoA and Mid-range Mach numbers.. This finding led to some aerodynamic changes and the addition of a “stability augmentation function”, MCAS, to extend the existing speed trim system and reduce the identified pitch-up tendency.. As the development of the 737 MAX progressed, the MCAS function was extended to low Mach numbers.. As delivered, the MCAS would activate during manual flight when the flaps were fully retracted and the aircraft AoA as measured by either of the two AoA vanes exceeded a Mach Number-based threshold.. MCAS activation meant that automatic trim commands were generated to move the stabiliser in a nose-down direction until the AoA reduced below this threshold at which point the MCAS would move the stabiliser in a nose-up direction and return it to its original position. These automatic stabiliser inputs could be stopped or reversed if the pilots used their control column stabiliser trim switches. However, if the stabiliser trim switches were used and the elevated angle of attack condition was still present, the MCAS would initiate another stabiliser nose-down input after five seconds.. The FAA procedures for transport-category aircraft type certification were noted to require an aircraft manufacturer to demonstrate that its design complied with all applicable FAA regulations. This included demonstrating “through analysis, test, or both” that a design complied with applicable requirements CFR Part 25 within which parts25.671 and 25.672 respectively address control systems in general and stability augmentation and automatic and power-operated systems specifically. In addition to this CFR Part 25.1322 contains requirements for flight crew alerting including a requirement that such alerts must: (1) provide the needed information to identify non-normal operation or aircraft system conditions and allow a crew to determine any appropriate action and (2) “be readily and easily detectable and intelligible by flight crew under all foreseeable operating conditions, including conditions where multiple alerts are provided”. The Report explains how the NTSB investigation into the way in which these requirements were satisfied had led to the FAA issuing a type certificate variation for the 737 MAX-8 and these findings led to the following Conclusion: The assumptions that Boeing used in its functional hazard assessment of uncommanded MCAS function for the 737 MAX did not adequately consider and account for the impact that multiple flight deck alerts and indications could have on pilots’ responses to the hazard. Seven corresponding Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration