was noted that the airworthiness type certification requirements applicable to the MD83 under the 1977 version of FAR 25 prevailing at the time required a 7% margin in speed between the stall and the warning of a stall, the latter to be provided either by aerodynamic buffeting or by a stick shaker or equivalent system. It was further noted that although MD-80 series aircraft are fitted with a stick shaker to warn of an imminent stall at low altitude, at high altitude, the warning is aerodynamic buffeting. The performance of the aircraft at its actual weight at the time of the incident rather than the one the crew had assumed based on the erroneous data entry was reviewed by the Investigation. It was found that at the actual weight, the onset of buffet had been as expected and that the speed and stall level information provided by the PMS had been consistent with the weight input during the pre flight preparation. It was considered that the stall level of FL370 and the relatively low speeds generated as feasible by the PMS had not alerted the crew because they had expected that, at the light weight expected due to the fact that it was an out of service positioning flight, there would be good performance relative to a fully loaded aircraft. The occurrence of a very similar event four years earlier to an MD-82: MD82, en-route, near Machiques Venezuela, 2005 which became a fatal accident when the aircraft stalled and the crew could not recover from it was noted as were the relevance of safety recommendations arising from that Investigation in respect of improving crew awareness of aircraft performance ceiling and high level aerodynamic stall buffet. The formally-recorded Conclusion of the Investigation was that “the incident, involving a near stall, was brought about by an error inputting the weight into the Performance Management System (PMS)”. Safety Action by the aircraft operator was reported to have been taken as follows: verification of pilot knowledge of the magnitude of operational values. introduction into CRM training of a module specific to charter flights. introduction into CRM training of the importance of briefings and cross-checks.. issue of a reminder of the requirement to complete a new performance card if the actual take off weight is more than 3 tonnes greater than the provisional take off weight entered during flight preparation.. improvements in the procedures for cross checks.. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued in a French language version only but is also available here on SKYbrary in an unofficial English language translation. No Safety Recommendations were made.