An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was successfully recovered to assist the Investigation. It was established that during pre-flight preparations, the First Officer, designated as PF, had mistakenly entered the aircraft ZFW of 86,520 lbs into the Performance Management System PMS) in place of the GWT (Gross Weight) of 129,673 lbs. Since the PMS requires that the GWT value should be between 88,000lbs and 170,000lbs, the entry led to the annunciation of the CHECK GWT message. The First Officer stated that “he then re-entered the weight value and the error message disappeared” but that he did not remember what value was entered. It was confirmed that the aircraft commander had not cross-checked the weights entered. It was noted that prior to departure, the FPL had shown a cruise level of FL 350 based on a GWT which was 5000 lbs below the actual GWT and considered that “the crew might have been alerted when the PMS proposed a cruising level higher than FL 350 (FL 370) even though the aircraft was heavier”. It was also noted that the crew had stated afterwards “that the poor meteorological conditions on departure (snow on the ground) and problems with the airline’s preparations had resulted in a significant delay and thus a high workload”. Once airborne, a climb to FL 260 was made and, upon reaching, the crew requested and were approved for continued climb to FL 370. Shortly afterwards, whilst passing FL 300 at M 0.77, ATC asked if it would be possible to reach FL 370 within 4 minutes. Having consulted the PMS, which based on the erroneous data input indicated a minimum speed of M 0.59, an affirmative reply was given and the PF selected a speed of M 0.65. When the 4 minute target was evidently not going to be met, the crew and that of the other flights involved in a potential conflict were both asked to turn 20° left. As the aircraft came out of the turn, the angle of attack was 3° and increasing as the AP maintained M. 0.65. The aircraft levelled at FL 370 but just over a minute later, the A/T mode changed to ‘MACH ATL’ indicating that the thrust required to maintain M 0.65 was greater than the maximum thrust available. The crew reported that they had felt buffeting and had “thought that the aircraft was behind the power/speed curve”. The AP was disconnected and a descent was commenced with the buffeting ceasing as the speed increased. The aircraft was levelled at FL350 and the flight was completed without further event. The primary concern of the crew - and the reason for initiating a descent - appeared to have been the recognition of low speed rather than the recognition of proximity to a stall. Recorded data confirmed that on reaching FL 370, the aircraft had been close to stalling with the speed M 0.64 and the angle of attack 5.2°. It