a second ad hoc "circling manoeuvre" for Runway 09 was commenced [6] with visual contact with the runway soon lost again and the aircraft was turned to the north and then climbed to around MSA in a continuing left turn so that a return to the NDB was made from the south. The Captain stated that a further approach to runway 27 would be the last attempt to land at Sanikiluaq and that if it was unsuccessful, they would proceed to Kuujjuarapik, which was about 30 minutes away and for which there would be sufficient fuel. The latest wind velocity was obtained - little changed at 050° 15-20 knots - but still equivalent to a 14 knot tailwind component against the maximum permitted 10 knots. The approach made use of the GPS to carry out the NDB RWY 27 (GNSS) overlay approach in order to benefit from distance to go and more precise tracking. Visibility was advised as 1½ sm (2400 metres) as "the aircraft was established at an indicated altitude of 400 feet, 3 nm from the airport, 197 feet below the published MDA, without having established the required visual references". Visual contact with the runway was subsequently acquired just beyond the MAP at approximately 0.7 nm from the runway threshold and "the decision to land was made". Full flap was selected, power was set to idle and descent at an excessive 140 knots (Vref + 30) was commenced. As the rate of descent exceeded 1500 fpm, a GPWS ‘SINK RATE' Alert occurred, followed immediately by the first of a series of 'PULL UP' Warnings as the rate of descent exceeded 1800 fpm – which both pilots subsequently stated that they had "not heard". The runway threshold was crossed at approximately 180 feet agl and the PULL UP Warnings continued until the aircraft was approximately 60 feet agl and approximately 900 feet past the threshold. The runway mid-point was passed still airborne and two seconds later, the Captain called a go-around. Ten seconds later, "the aircraft collided with terrain beyond the departure end of Runway 27 and south of the runway centreline". It then continued to slide and rotate right before coming to rest on an easterly heading. An evacuation was initiated by the First Officer using the forward right overwing emergency exit whilst the Captain made a MAYDAY call on the airport radio frequency. A rapid response "reduced the exposure of passengers and crew to the elements". The one fatality was an infant restrained only in the parent's arms which failed to hold the infant secure during the impact. An annotated reconstruction of the vertical profile during this final approach is shown below. A comparison of the approach as actually flown by descent from the MDA at the MAP (the NDB) with a 3º [Continuous Descent Final Approach|CDFA]] (referred to by the Investigation as a Stabilised Constant Descent Approach - SCDA) is shown on the diagram below. Having established the facts, the Investigation then focused on some specific