areas and/or airports" had been "finalised and accepted by Transport Canada (TC) in May 2010". The number of company flights into Sanikiluaq was found to have increased considerably during January, "initially starting with just a few flights per month going up to 11 flights per month for both November and December 2012". It was noted that "TC had not required that a safety case be completed for other Sanikiluaq charter flights prior to this occurrence" and that "the possible risk factors associated with flights conducted to it, whether by day or by night, had not previously been identified by TC or Perimeter". Prior to the occurrence, Perimeter had not incorporated the use of the SCDA technique in its training or operations, nor was it mandated to do so by TC, although the accident flight crew was familiar with the technique. Perimeter Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) did not provide detailed criteria for stabilised approaches or guidance for action to take in the event of an unstable approach. The final approach flown was unstable in a number of conventionally-used criteria including the rate of descent, speed and power setting.. It was noted that: Perimeter’s SMS, which included a requirement for the completion of proactive 'Safety Cases' to be carried out in a wide range of circumstances including "prior to new destination areas and/or airports" had been "finalised and accepted by Transport Canada (TC) in May 2010". The number of company flights into Sanikiluaq was found to have increased considerably during January, "initially starting with just a few flights per month going up to 11 flights per month for both November and December 2012". It was noted that "TC had not required that a safety case be completed for other Sanikiluaq charter flights prior to this occurrence" and that "the possible risk factors associated with flights conducted to it, whether by day or by night, had not previously been identified by TC or Perimeter".. Prior to the occurrence, Perimeter had not incorporated the use of the SCDA technique in its training or operations, nor was it mandated to do so by TC, although the accident flight crew was familiar with the technique.. Perimeter Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) did not provide detailed criteria for stabilised approaches or guidance for action to take in the event of an unstable approach. The final approach flown was unstable in a number of conventionally-used criteria including the rate of descent, speed and power setting.. The NDB Approach Procedure at Sanikiluaq It was noted that the approach was "designed such that a descent from the MAP at MDA results in a steeper-than-optimum descent path" since the MAP was "located beyond the 3-degree descent path". It was considered that "if visual references are not acquired until close to the MAP, at MDA, crews may be tempted to initiate a steep, unstable descent to the threshold in order to land".. It was noted that the approach was "designed such that a descent from the MAP at MDA results in a steeper-than-optimum