aspects including but not limited to: Flight Crew Performance A deterioration in crew adherence to SOPs was evident from the termination of the initial approach. Prior to this "the crew made standard deviation calls and corrections and completed other required checks". Thereafter, "standard calls, checks, and corrections began to be omitted" It was concluded that "these omissions indicate task saturation and a breakdown of situational awareness for both crew members". It was noted that during the occurrence of the GPWS SINK RATE alert and the successive PULL UP Warnings which were annunciated during the final approach, neither crew member had acknowledged the Alert or reacted to the GPWS Warnings. Over the runway and one second after the GPWS Warnings had ceased, the First Officer had "indicated field conditions looked good" without any mention of "the aircraft altitude, high rate of descent and the airspeed being too high". It was concluded that during this period, "a lack of assertiveness on the part of the First Officer" had also been evident. Many other failures to follow SOPs and a number of violations were to be seen including failure to follow circling and missed approach procedures, descent below MDA without having acquired visual reference, carriage of fuel not declared on the loadsheet and conducting an approach in circumstances where any resultant landing would have been almost certain to be made with a tailwind component in excess of AFM limitations.. A deterioration in crew adherence to SOPs was evident from the termination of the initial approach. Prior to this "the crew made standard deviation calls and corrections and completed other required checks". Thereafter, "standard calls, checks, and corrections began to be omitted" It was concluded that "these omissions indicate task saturation and a breakdown of situational awareness for both crew members". It was noted that during the occurrence of the GPWS SINK RATE alert and the successive PULL UP Warnings which were annunciated during the final approach, neither crew member had acknowledged the Alert or reacted to the GPWS Warnings. Over the runway and one second after the GPWS Warnings had ceased, the First Officer had "indicated field conditions looked good" without any mention of "the aircraft altitude, high rate of descent and the airspeed being too high". It was concluded that during this period, "a lack of assertiveness on the part of the First Officer" had also been evident. Many other failures to follow SOPs and a number of violations were to be seen including failure to follow circling and missed approach procedures, descent below MDA without having acquired visual reference, carriage of fuel not declared on the loadsheet and conducting an approach in circumstances where any resultant landing would have been almost certain to be made with a tailwind component in excess of AFM limitations. The Operator and Operational Safety It was noted that: Perimeter’s SMS, which included a requirement for the completion of proactive 'Safety Cases' to be carried out in a wide range of circumstances including "prior to new destination