An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. The 2 hour CVR was recovered but the aircraft was not fitted with a FDR nor was it required to be. Both the installed GPS and the GPWS provided useful data. It was noted that the Captain had 2330 hours experience on type out of 5700 hours total flying experience and had originally joined the Operator as a First Officer in 2006, being promoted to Captain the following year. Soon after this, he had left to work for a series of other operators of heavier aircraft but had been re-employed by Perimeter as a Captain two months prior to the accident after being laid off from a previous job. Since returning, he had been to Sanikiluaq twice, once during the day and once at night, both in VMC. The First Officer had been employed by the Operator as a ramp worker whilst completing his multi-engine and instrument ratings before commencing work as a pilot on type in July 2011. It was the first time the two pilots had flown together. Both pilots reported having felt rested prior to their duty which was rostered as a return flight that would have taken them up to the maximum allowable crew duty time. It was found that the accident flight was being operated in place of a scheduled flight which would normally have been flown the previous day by Keewatin Air, a "sister company" to Perimeter Aviation, but had been cancelled due to adverse weather at Sanikiluaq. It was noted that Perimeter did not operate scheduled flights to Sanikiluaq and also that the crew had been unable to obtain copies of AIP Charts required for their trip whilst at their fight planning office and were told to collect these at Keewatin Air prior to departure. They subsequently forgot to do this before getting airborne and rather than turn back to get them, had obtained information over the radio en route - although this had not included the direction for the procedure turn required for the only available instrument approach at Sanikiluaq - to runway 27 - nor the MDA (620 feet QNH) for the circling approach to Runway 09 which forecast conditions had indicated may be required. The crew pre-flight inspection of the assigned aircraft disclosed a faulty door warning indication and the necessary rectification accounted for most of the eventual 4 hour delay to the departure of the flight. The CVR recording showed that the Captain had "felt frustrated as a result of the pre-flight preparation issues" and that this had continued "during the non-emergency, non-stressful, 2-hour period" prior to descent. The cabin load consisted of freight in the rear half and passengers in the front half with the recorded weight being just a few kg below the permitted 7257kg maximum take-off weight. However, an additional 90 kg of fuel had also been loaded, which, it was calculated, would at normal consumption rates have allowed for an additional 20 minutes of flight beyond