hazards that could affect the safety of a flight or that could cause injury or death". In this latter respect, it was specifically observed that the post-accident PI "did not produce any findings or conclusions regarding the seating of the mother and infant in the exit row, or make any recommendations regarding the safety issue of the non-use of CRS for the infant".. Neither the ineffective implementation of the approved SMS nor its failure to detect non-compliant practices had been captured by Transport Canada's three oversight mechanisms: SMS Assessments, 'Process Inspections' (PIs) and Program Validation Inspections' (PVIs). It was noted that these "are conducted to identify any non-conformity to regulatory requirements (and) are also meant to identify any hazards that could affect the safety of a flight or that could cause injury or death". In this latter respect, it was specifically observed that the post-accident PI "did not produce any findings or conclusions regarding the seating of the mother and infant in the exit row, or make any recommendations regarding the safety issue of the non-use of CRS for the infant". The formally documented Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Causes and Contributing Factors The lack of required flight documents, such as instrument approach charts, compromised thoroughness and placed pressure on the Captain to find a work-around solution during flight planning. It also negatively affected the crew’s situational awareness during the approaches at Sanikiluaq.. Weather conditions below published landing minima for the approach at the nominated alternate Kuujjuarapik and insufficient fuel to make the alternative, La Grande Rivière, eliminated any favourable diversion options. The possibility of a successful landing at Kuujjuarapik was considered unlikely and put pressure on the crew thoroughness and placed pressure on the crew to land at Sanikiluaq.. Frustration, fatigue, and an increase in workload and stress during the instrument approaches resulted in crew attentional narrowing and a shift away from well-learned, highly practised procedures.. Due to the lack of an instrument approach for the into-wind runway and the unsuccessful attempts at circling, the crew chose the option of landing with a tailwind, resulting in a steep, unstable approach.. The final descent was initiated beyond the missed approach point and, combined with the 14-knot tailwind, resulted in the aircraft remaining above the desired 3-degree descent path.. Neither pilot (reported hearing) the GPWS Warnings; both were focused on landing the aircraft to the exclusion of other indicators that warranted alternative action.. During the final approach, the aircraft was unstable in several parameters. This instability contributed to the aircraft being half-way down the runway with excessive speed and altitude.. The aircraft was not in a position to land and stop within the confines of the runway, and a go-around was initiated from a low-energy landing regime.. The Captain possibly eased off on the control column in the climb due to the low airspeed. This, in combination with the configuration change at a critical phase of flight, as called for in the company procedures, may have contributed to the