the 5 hours available using the declared fuel load. The First Officer was designated as PF and a cruise level of FL230 was eventually reached to avoid some light turbulence. Shortly before starting descent on what was expected to be a flight of about 3 hours, a weather check of destination and nominated alternate (Kuujjuarapik - 90 nm from destination) disclosed that conditions at the latter were worse than forecasted. Weather for La Grande Rivière, some 260 nm south southeast of the destination, was therefore also obtained but it was then found that there was insufficient fuel to reach it. Although the conditions at Kuujjuarapik meant that a diversion there might not be practical, it was assessed that "there was sufficient fuel on board to conduct several approaches at destination before needing to consider diverting" and the flight was continued, with the Captain taking over as PF because of a Company Requirement that landings on gravel runways such as that at Sanikiluaq must only be made by Captains. The wind velocity at destination as the flight approached was given as 040º/15-20 knots. The published MSA was 1600feet QNH and sufficient reference for a straight-in approach to runway 09 was not available (see the diagram below which shows with numbered annotations the ground track for the remainder of the flight included as [n]). The aircraft continued towards the NDB [1] and then completed a procedure turn [2] (to the south rather than to the north as promulgated but terrain-safe due to it being flown at MSA) onto the NDB final approach to runway 27 [3] which had a touchdown zone elevation of 110 feet. GPS was used to determine distance from the NDB. There were no approach lights but runway identification lights - unidirectional flashing strobe lights - were installed and working. As the approach continued, "visual contact with the runway environment was made approximately 0.6 nm from the threshold of Runway 27" when just above the procedure MDA of 560 feet QNH. A left-hand circling for Runway 09 was then initiated [4] and the aircraft descended to an indicated altitude of approximately 500 feet - below the published minimum circling altitude of 620 feet QNH which had not been obtained - and 30 seconds later, "visual contact with the ground was lost and the circling manoeuvre was continued in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC)". A go-around was not called and the published missed approach procedure (turn right 10º and climb to 1600 feet QNH before turning right to return to the NDB) was not flown. Whilst continuing to circle IMC, "the aircraft descended to an indicated altitude of 400 feet, at a speed of 140 knots" [5] with the north east wind "pushing the aircraft south of the Runway 09 centreline" into an area with terrain up to 223 feet - which was noted as equating to a height of 155 feet agl with cold temperature correction applied. Runway 09 was eventually sighted but it was not possible to land and