descent path" since the MAP was "located beyond the 3-degree descent path". It was considered that "if visual references are not acquired until close to the MAP, at MDA, crews may be tempted to initiate a steep, unstable descent to the threshold in order to land". Infant Passenger Restraint The infant passenger who was the only fatality as a result of the crash was not restrained in a Child Restraint System (CRS) nor was one required by the prevailing regulations. As a result, the 6 month old infant "was ejected from the mother’s arms during the impact sequence and contact with the interior surfaces of the aircraft contributed to the fatal injuries". The Investigation indirectly quoted work by the NTSB from 2004 that reiterated their experience of individual accident investigations which found that "arm strength is not sufficient to protect even a small child" since survivable accident g-forces could easily result in an effective force of 3 or 4 times the weight held when attempting to hold onto it during sudden deceleration in accidents that are otherwise survivable. The subject was considered to be of particular concern in the context of operations in northern Canada, where data for a ten year period provided to the Investigation by Perimeter and three other operators showed that infants under 2 years of age constituted over half of all passengers up to the age of 12 – an age group which had consistently formed around 14% of all passengers carried.. The infant passenger who was the only fatality as a result of the crash was not restrained in a Child Restraint System (CRS) nor was one required by the prevailing regulations. As a result, the 6 month old infant "was ejected from the mother’s arms during the impact sequence and contact with the interior surfaces of the aircraft contributed to the fatal injuries". The Investigation indirectly quoted work by the NTSB from 2004 that reiterated their experience of individual accident investigations which found that "arm strength is not sufficient to protect even a small child" since survivable accident g-forces could easily result in an effective force of 3 or 4 times the weight held when attempting to hold onto it during sudden deceleration in accidents that are otherwise survivable. The subject was considered to be of particular concern in the context of operations in northern Canada, where data for a ten year period provided to the Investigation by Perimeter and three other operators showed that infants under 2 years of age constituted over half of all passengers up to the age of 12 – an age group which had consistently formed around 14% of all passengers carried. Regulatory Oversight Neither the ineffective implementation of the approved SMS nor its failure to detect non-compliant practices had been captured by Transport Canada's three oversight mechanisms: SMS Assessments, 'Process Inspections' (PIs) and Program Validation Inspections' (PVIs). It was noted that these "are conducted to identify any non-conformity to regulatory requirements (and) are also meant to identify any