in a timely manner.. If Transport Canada’s oversight is dependent on the effectiveness of a company’s safety management system’s reporting of safety issues, there is a risk that important issues will be missed.. Other The quick response of the people on the ground reduced the exposure of passengers and crew to the elements.. Safety Action taken by Perimeter Aviation as a consequence of the accident included the following: All Operational Planning functions have been centralised in a new Systems Operations Control Centre at their Winnipeg main base.. Improved flight crew access to AIP instrument approach charts has been provided and Charter Route Packages similar to those already available for Scheduled Routes have been created. The existing 'Charters Checklist' has been improved.. Passenger briefings have been changed to ensure uniformity and the First Officer now reads the briefing verbatim from special Cards placed in each aircraft.. Operating Procedures have been supplemented by the definition of separate conditions for a stabilised [[Visual Flight Rules (VFR)|VFR[[ or IFR approach and any deviation from a stabilised approach profile must now result in a missed approach.. SOPs have been modified to include a section defining Stabilised Constant Descent Angle (SCDA) non-precision approach criteria and their use.. More detailed GPWS training and procedures have been introduced.. The flight training department has enhanced the focus in the correct execution of a go around and SOPs have been revised to improve crew coordination during this manoeuvre.. CRM training has been enhanced.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Department of Transport require commercial air carriers to collect and report, on a routine basis, the number of infants (under 2 years old), including lap-held and young children (2 to 12 years old) travelling. (A15-01). that the Department of Transport work with industry to develop age-and-size-appropriate child restraint systems for infants and young children travelling on commercial aircraft and mandate their use to provide an equivalent level of safety compared to adults. (A15-02). The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 10 June 2015 and released on 29 June 2015.