Flight Identification - while not common in e.g. European airspace, this is one of the few methods for identification available when only primary radar is used.. Navigation assistance - if due to equipment malfunction other navigation means (e.g. GNSS, INS, RNAV) are not available vectoring remains an option. This can also be useful for strayed VFR flights if the pilot has lost orientation.. Special use area (SUA) bypassing - if for whatever reason a flight is approaching a SUA (prohibited, restricted, danger, temporary segregated, etc.) and flying above or below it is not feasible then vectoring may be used to guide the aircraft around it.. Heading locking - this is a method that is sometimes used in situations where there is enough separation between aircraft but it is slightly above the prescribed minima (e.g. 6 miles separation with 5 mile minimum). In such cases the controller may "lock" the headings of the two aircraft ("continue present heading"). This increases the flight crews' situational awareness and reduces the probability of unexpected turn. While this method may not lead to lateral deviation of the aircraft it falls within the definition of vectoring, as the controller requires the aircraft to fly a specific heading. It is also worth noting that a significant deviation from the flight planned trajectory is not impossible (e.g. if the instruction is given shortly before the airway makes a sharp turn).. Conflict solving (opposite) - if a level change is not applicable for some reason (e.g. aircraft unable to climb, conflicting traffic at other levels, need for coordination with other sector, etc.) vectoring can be a very efficient way to solve the situation. A relatively small change of heading is often enough to achieve the desired separation.. Conflict solving (crossing) - vectoring is a very effective method for solving crossing conflicts if a level change is not preferable and there is not enough time to perform speed control. In most cases, the aircraft that comes second to the intersection point of the two tracks is instructed to turn in the direction of the first one ("aiming for the other traffic"). This manoeuvre effectively puts the second (or slower) aircraft well beind the first (faster) one. After the crossing is complete, the vectored aircraft may be resumed to point that would compensate for the deviation and the extended flight path, thus gaining both safety and efficiency.. Sequencing - often combined with speed control, vectoring is an effective method to achieve the desired distance before reaching the boundary with the next ATS sector or unit. The application is similar to the crossing scenario, the difference being that after the desired separation is achieved the aircraft being vectored remains behind the one that is ahead..