The “EASA Automation Policy: Bridging Design and Training Principles” lists the following: Improve basic airmanship and manual flying skills of pilots;. Improve recurrent training and testing practices with regard to automation management;. Improve the Multi Crew Cooperation (MCC) concept and training (instruction and testing) practices to better address automation management; 'Note': European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) has already planned to improve Crew Resource Management (Crew Resource Management) guidance - Rule Making Task RMT.0411 (OPS.094).. Improve the Competence Based Training (CBT) and Evidence Based Training (EBT) approaches to better address automation management;. Develop automation policies specific to aircraft types and variants to account for differences regarding automation and flight path management;. Improve the Multi-crew Pilot Licence (MPL) programme to better address automation management;. Manufacturers are to publish automation philosophies and policies, generic and specific to aircraft types and variants, for communication to the training (instructors and trainees) and operations communities;. Require transition training to include an understanding of the differences in philosophy when moving from one manufacturer’s aircraft to another (e.g. Airbus/ Boeing) It is easy in some aircraft to maintain a tactile connection, by resting hands on Thrust Levers/ Control Column, to what the auto flight system is commanding. In other aircraft one has to read and interpret mode indicators/ instruments;. Improve air operators’ automation policies / provide guidance for the improvement of air operators’ automation policies;. Consider introducing requirements regarding flight deck software customisation (e.g. electronic checklists and procedures, Flight Warning Systems) and enhancing the approval of safety critical functions of Electronic Flight Bags (EFBs) or introducing this approval in the frame of aircraft certification;. Transfer the certification assumptions regarding flight crew competences required to safely fly the aircraft to the training and operations communities through appropriate means such as the Operational Suitability Data (OSD);. Review Certification Specifications (CS) and Acceptable Means of Compliance (AMC) 25.1302 “Installed Systems and Equipment for Use by the Flight Crew”, 25.1322 “Flight Crew Alerting” and CS 25.1329 “Flight Guidance System” with regard to automation management, and the assumptions made regarding the flight crew capabilities required to take appropriate action;. Extend the applicability of CS and AMC 25.1302 and CS and AMC 25.1322 to Part 23 (Normal, Utility, Aerobatic and Commuter Aeroplanes), Part 29 (Large Rotorcraft) and Part 27 (Small Rotorcraft)..