An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was noted that the F50 was being operated by a second-in command Captain designated as PF occupying the left hand seat with a Check Captain in command and occupying the right hand seat. The nature of the check/training being performed on the F50 and the experience of the four pilots and the controller who was responsible for the F50 as it taxied to its parking gate was not recorded. It was established that, after landing on runway 12, the F50 had rolled through the intersection with runway 23 (see the illustration below) before turning left onto taxiway D2 and changing from the TWR to the GND frequency. Once the F50 had cleared the runway intersection, the TWR controller had cleared an A320 to take off from runway 23. Once this aircraft was airborne, TWR cleared another A320 which was on approach to runway 23 and about 3nm from touchdown, to land. As the F50 taxied along D2, the Check Captain in the F50 saw both the departing and approaching A320s but was unable to make an initial contact call to GND because the frequency was continuously in use for other transmissions. He reported that having initially assessed that they should be able to expect a clearance to cross runway 23, the inability to get the call in led him to instead anticipate having to stop at the 23 holding point. As the F50 approached this holding point and the crew were still unable to get a transmission in, the GND controller, who had seen the aircraft taxiing towards runway 23 on D2 transmitted, without a break from their previous transmission "Unity 3201 hold short of runway 23, I’ve got you going to 50 Golf". The Check Captain of the F50 subsequently advised that the start of the GND controller's transmission appeared to have been missed and that what they had actually heard was "runway 23 and I’ve got you for bay 50 golf". He further stated that "as the instruction included the parking bay", he had assumed that the instruction had been to cross the runway and had therefore read back "cross runway 23 to 50 golf, Unity 3201". The GND controller reported believing that the pilot had read back "short runway 23..." and had assumed that the word ‘hold’ had been ‘clipped’. Both F50 pilots reported that they had "thought they had received a clearance to cross runway 23". The TWR controller saw the F50 on D2 and heard the GND controller say ‘hold short’, but did not hear the crew readback. They reported having then "scanned runway 23 to check it was still clear for the landing A320, which was then over buildings and less than 30 seconds from touchdown and then commenced a handover of the TWR position to another controller". The F50 PF then checked to their left, called "clear left" and began to taxi the aircraft across runway 23. The Check Captain