including engine struts located within the compartment, fire seals, hoses, clamps, fire detector support grommets, access panels, the un-installed igniter harness and fire detectors. The left engine was then also inspected and the same damage was found there too. On both engines, the left hand side igniter plugs were not installed and were found loose within the nacelle whereas those on the right hand side were correctly fitted with their harnesses attached. It was noted that the affected engine access panel latches "had to be forced open due to the effects of the overheating". It was immediately obvious that the uninstalled igniters were likely to be the ones which had been removed in order to complete the pressure washes overnight prior to the flight and this was subsequently confirmed. A detailed assessment of the circumstances in which this maintenance error had occurred was carried out based on the sequence of actions which had led to it. It was established that during the afternoon shift on the day prior to the flight, both engines were prepared for engine turbine washes by the Engineer; the igniter on the left side of each engine was removed. Two mechanics had then prepared the aircraft for compressor desalination washes by removing the access plug from each engine and carried out these washes. They had not referred to the Aircraft Maintenance Manual or any other technical instructions prior to this and they did not sign any document for the work performed. Turbine water washes were not carried out because the washes were being carried out under a verbally communicated new requirement and they had been unsure which type of wash was required or if both were and all the previous engine washes they had performed on this aircraft had been compressor desalination washes only. This additional compressor wash requirement "was neither included in the Aircraft maintenance program, nor was it controlled by the maintenance planning department" and no Task Card for the compressor wash had been issued by the maintenance supervisors. On the basis of a verbal confirmation from one of the mechanics, the Engineer assumed that the turbine water washes had been carried out certified them without making any attempt to verify that the work had actually been performed. He also assumed that the igniter plugs and their harnesses had been replaced without making any physical inspection to confirm personally that this was the case. He then declared the aircraft to be airworthy for flight - although he was not a 'Certifying Engineer'. No entry was made in the Company Electronic Data Entry System to indicate that engine washes had been performed. It was noted that an engine ground run was only performed after washing if the engine will not otherwise be started within the next 12 hours. The EMM was found to state that an engine run after wash is not required. It was found that Company procedures only required the wash on the left engine as the right engine had only recently been