An Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were successfully downloaded and nothing abnormal was noted. It was found that the aircraft involved was owned, operated and maintained by Abu Dhabi Aviation and was one of three aircraft contracted to an oil company to transport their passengers and cargo to Das Island, which is located in the Arabian Gulf, just over 100 nm from Abu Dhabi. The aircraft Captain reported having accumulated 9500 flying hours including 4500 on type and the First Officer reported having accumulated 2150 flying hours of which 1100 were on type. It was established that the aircraft had last operated the previous day and that overnight, compressor washes had been carried out on both engines. This fact was not known to the flight crew of the first flight thereafter, which was the incident flight. With the Captain as PF , the flight crew had no knowledge of anything abnormal during take off and initial climb but as the aircraft was climbing through 2300 feet with the seat belt signs still on, the Cabin Attendant had arrived in the flight deck to advise that a passenger seated near to the right engine nacelle had pointed out - and he had confirmed - that "there was something wrong" with it. There were no abnormal indications on the flight deck but the Captain decided that in view of the fact that the passenger concerned - who was employed as a mechanical engineer - was reported to be "beginning to become distressed", the First Officer should leave his seat and investigate. The First Officer reported that he had been able to see from the passenger cabin window that the inboard side of the right engine nacelle had signs of a bright light within the compartment through the nacelle vent panel, indicating that there was a fire behind the panel. The paint on the panel was also blistering and bare metal was exposed. On his return, the First Officer advised that he believed there may be a fire within the right engine nacelle and as a result, the Captain decided to return immediately to the departure airport. The climb was stopped at 5000 feet, a 'PAN' was declared to ATC advising of a possible engine fire and a priority landing was given. The return was without further event and, after approximately 10 minutes airborne, a normal landing was accomplished. After the airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services had checked the right engine for any signs of fire and found none, the aircraft had been taxied to its parking stand using only the left engine. Inspection of the right engine after the flight found evidence of localised overheat damage caused by hot engine gases escaping through an open igniter boss on the engine casing. These gases had impinged on the nacelle, engine case drain line and engine support strut. Several components had visible signs of overheat damage