installed. Considerable evidence that fatigue may have played a part in what happened was found. Both the Engineer’s roster and those of other maintenance personnel required them to work on an 8.5-hour shift each day, inclusive of a one-hour break, for 56 consecutive days, alternating between an early start day shift from 0600 to 1430 Local Time and a late shift from 1330 to 2200 Local Time. After completing 56 consecutive duty days, employees were then rostered 'off' for 28 consecutive days leave. No risk assessment or identification of potential hazards attributable to maintenance staff duty times was made available to the Investigation. The absence of any procedure for "measuring and mitigating the effects of fatigue for aircraft maintenance personnel" was noted as was the fact that this is not a regulatory requirement. There was also no evidence of maintenance personnel reporting any fatigue-related issues through the internal safety reporting system. Finally, it was noted that under the Operator's Maintenance Organisation Exposition (MOE) the responsibility for the Maintenance Error Management System lies with the Quality Department. It was considered that this was "inconsistent with auditing and investigative principles, which require independence of, and separation of, the audit and investigation processes". The Investigation examined relevant regulatory requirements and oversight procedures for maintenance approvals. It was noted that whilst flight crew working hours and rest periods are subject to strict control, no such requirements applied to maintenance personnel and GCAA Inspectors were not required to review duty hours practices. It was also noted that the GCAA "List of Examples of Reportable Incidents" only included fatigue of flight crew as a reportable incident with no similar requirement for maintenance personnel to make such reports. The Operator had implemented an Safety Management System but GCAA audit findings were found to have highlighted deficiencies "including inadequate staffing". One of these findings was found to the effect that "there was no record indicating that the Operator’s Quality Assurance had audited any aspect of the SMS" as required under applicable regulations and there were GCAA audit findings that "the Operator had insufficient aircraft maintenance manpower for the planned workload". It was noted that the passenger who alerted the crew to abnormal condition of the right engine had also observed that the aircraft PA had been almost inaudible where he was seated when the pre departure cabin safety briefing for the incident flight was given due to the noise of the engines. The formal statement of Cause was that the Serious Incident was due to "the (failure) to reinstall the left engine igniters on both of the aircraft’s engines following maintenance work". Nineteen Contributory Factors relevant to the maintenance error were identified as follows: (a) Unrecorded maintenance work performed on the aircraft by the Operator’s maintenance personnel. (b) Introduction of an engine wash without a maintenance Task Card. (c) Engineer signed off work on the aircraft without verifying that the work had been performed. (d) Mechanics performed unsupervised work. (e) Mechanics performed engine motoring without the Operator’s approval.