(f) Work was performed on the aircraft without maintenance Task Card. (g) Engine washes were not considered a critical task by the Operator. (h) Performing similar tasks on both engines during the same maintenance visit. (i) Not carrying out an engine run after the engine washes were performed. (j) Not performing a system check of the engine ignition system after engine wash normalisation. (k) Not attaching a telltale streamer to indicate that parts have been removed and are in a concealed area. (l) Operator’s quality oversight, as unrecorded work was being performed regularly prior to the Incident. (m) Mechanics not signing for work performed, following engine washes. (n) The removal, in 2009, of the engine wash card which was requiring a signature by the mechanic, before the engineer signoff. (o) The effect of fatigue on the decision making process of the Engineer due to his shift pattern of working an average of 8.5 hours a day for 32 days with 2 staggered days off. (p) The Engineer, in addition to supervising the shift work, was required to enter data into the Operator’s electronic system. (q) Application of the Operator’s human factors training, as unrecorded work was a practice associated with engine washes. (r) The Operator’s SMS implementation, since there were GCAA audit findings between 2009 and 2012. (s) Lack of guidance provided by the GCAA, and the Operator, of the effect of shift duty times, and management of the risk associated with fatigue. Fourteen Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Abu Dhabi Aviation should review the process of identifying aircraft maintenance critical tasks and not limit this review process to engine washes. [SR45/2015]. that Abu Dhabi Aviation should review the practical implementation of aircraft maintenance human factors training and SMS awareness training. The documenting and signing for work performed on an aircraft should be emphasized during this training. [SR46/2015]. that Abu Dhabi Aviation should review and implement procedures, in line with SMS best practice, for risk mitigation for activities affecting aircraft maintenance. [SR47/2015]. that Abu Dhabi Aviation should review its procedures and implement control measures with regards to aircraft maintenance:. (1) When unsupervised work has to be performed. (2) To implement best practices for conducting maintenance but not limited to, the use of work cards for maintenance tasks, especially those involving safety-critical functions that promote the recording and verification of delineated steps in the task that, if improperly completed, could lead to a loss of control. (3) Provide data entry support for aircraft maintenance personnel. [SR48/2015] that Abu Dhabi Aviation should implement measures to enhance quality audit oversight in line with the requirements of the GCAA. [SR49/2015]. that Abu Dhabi Aviation should implement measures to have a safe cabin environment regarding passenger safety briefings so that announcements are audible and intelligible during all flight phases. [SR50/2015]. that Abu Dhabi Aviation should review Crew Resource Management training between the flight crew and cabin crew that can add benefit to the flight crew decision making process. [SR51/2015]. that Abu Dhabi Aviation