An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT). The FDR was removed from the aircraft and some relevant data was subsequently downloaded. However, whilst the installed FDR was found to be capable of recording up to 32 parameters, it was only possible to retrieve 20 recorded parameters from 52 flights including the accident flight although these did include airspeed, heading, roll, pitch and yaw which, in the absence of latitude and longitude position recording, allowed the determination of the aircraft flight path. It was also noted that the aircraft was configured in a way that allowed around 300 parameters to be recorded if a suitable FDR was installed. ATC voice recordings were also available. It was noted that the 59 year-old Captain, who was PF for the flight had a total of 23,823 flying hours experience of which 9,627 hours were on type and the 22 year-old First Officer had a total of 650 flying hours experience of which all but 170 hours were on type. A Loadmaster was also on board. It was noted that during pre flight preparation carried out at around 0630 local time on 14 September, the flight crew had received weather information which indicated that low cloud had been observed close to 3 nm final for the expected landing runway 15 at Wamena, which is at 5,084 feet amsl in a mountainous area, but that the cloud base was “increasing from 200 feet agl to 1000 feet agl” with a prevailing visibility at the airport of 3 km. This contrasted with a minimum visibility of 4.8 km required to continue an approach to Wamena below 1000 feet agl beyond waypoint ‘PIKEY’ which, as per the illustration below, was located abeam of and just to the right of a hill called ‘Pikei’ situated 2.8 nm from touchdown. The flight subsequently departed for the 40 minute sector to Wamena and climbed to a cruise altitude of 18,000 feet. As descent began, the flight was in VMC and the crew reported that they were “able to identify another Trigana flight ahead on the same route”. The Wamena TWR controller instructed the flight to report position over ‘JIWIKA’ (see the illustration below) and when it did so advised that the flight was number three for landing and should commence an orbit over point ‘X’ located on 8nm out on final approach to runway 15. The Operator’s Visual Guidance Approach Chart for Runway 15 at Wamena. [Reproduced from the Official Report] During the second orbit, clearance was given for the flight to commence approach on completion and report runway in sight. Soon after beginning the approach, which from the FDR was conducted throughout at about 135 KCAS, the Captain was recorded pointing out to the First Officer that the FMC (Flight Management Computer) message ‘using reserve fuel’ had appeared. Flap 40 was then selected and the Landing Checklist was completed. The Captain then levelled at approximately 1000 feet