aal and when the First Officer said that they were too high, the Captain responded that “it was better to be too high than too low” and disconnected the AP. After almost half a minute level and shortly before the 1000 feet agl auto callout occurred, the Pikei was still not visible but the Captain stated that he had visual contact with a known building and descent was resumed until the 500 feet aal auto callout occurred, at which point with the runway still not in sight, the aircraft was again levelled. Level flight was again continued for a little over 20 seconds during which time the pilot of another aircraft was recorded transmitting that “only the bottom part of the Pikei was visible”. After the First Officer had confirmed that the runway was in sight “one mile away” and they were aligned with the centreline, the Captain commenced a steep final descent. Within a few seconds, the First Officer had responded by advising the Captain to go around and then when he did not do so warned that they were too near the runway for their height. As the descent continued at up to 3,200 fpm, an EGPWS Warning ‘SINK RATE PULL UP’ was annunciated as the First Officer called “runway in sight” to TWR and two seconds later, a 3.25g touchdown occurred on the left main gear at 125 metres past the threshold of the 2175 metre-long 30 metre-wide runway quickly followed by the right main gear. This impact caused the left main gear leg to detach and the right main gear to collapse so that the left engine and lower fuselage contacted the runway surface. The aircraft then veered to the right, departed the runway and stopped approximately 1,890 meters from the threshold. In addition to the collapsed main landing gear, the nose landing gear and both inner flaps were broken, the left engine cowling was detached, the leading edge and the lower skin of the right horizontal stabiliser were respectively dented and perforated, the aft lower fuselage was abraded and the left wing to fuselage fairing torn. Left engine damage. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Lower fuselage damage. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Wamena METAR issued at the time of the touchdown gave the visibility as 3000 metres in mist with BKN cloud at 100 feet agl, the latter being a drop in the cloudbase from 400 feet since the METAR issued half an hour earlier. No prior relevant lack of airworthiness was found in respect of the aircraft and according to the accepted load and trim sheet, it was operating within the allowable weight and balance envelope. It was also noted that although Wamena was equipped with an NDB, no officially published instrument approaches were available and that the VASI was inoperative at the time of the accident. It was observed that the excessive rate of descent after a period of level flight at 500 feet agl was up to four times the rate