Almost all government and commercial training agencies suggest a "top down" approach to the weather self briefing. This methodology begins with an overview of the "big picture" international, national or regional conditions (as appropriate to the flight) and finishes with the examination of the actual conditions at the point of departure, destination and alternate airports, and at selected locations along the route of flight. Although there is some variance in the guidance from different agencies, the suggested methodology generally conforms with the following steps: Begin by reviewing charts which provide a large scale overview of the flight route. The Surface Analysis chart and AIRMET/SIGMET maps will provide a high level perspective of weather systems and areas of hazardous weather. While maintaining a "large scale" focus, move on to prognostic charts such as Convective Forecasts, Icing Forecasts, Freezing Level Forecasts and Turbulence Forecasts. The next task should be an examination of en route winds and temperatures. Winds Aloft forecasts come in both graphical and textual format. The graphical format is generally more convenient for altitude selections and temperature considerations. Graphical prediction products, that indicate widespread areas of cloud ceilings and visibilities, are available for many regions. These are easier to interpret than traditional weather depiction charts and offer analysis as well as forecast time periods. The final step of the forecast examination is a review of applicable TAF products from your departure aerodrome to your destination including diversion airports and alternates. With the forecast review complete, move on to an examination of current conditions, again using a "top down" approach. Begin with satellite and radar imagery to provide a large scale overview of current conditions. Review any available PIREPS. Keep in mind the type of aircraft that provided the report and how that might translate to your aircraft type in the same weather phenomena. Complete the review with an examination of the current conditions at your departure, destination, diversion and alternate airports using METARs or graphical charts of current conditions. With the forecast and actual conditions review complete, conclude the self briefing by comparing the current conditions with the corresponding forecast information to determine if the forecasts are accurate or if conditions are changing more quickly or more slowly than expected. As previously stated, this is only a suggested sequence. Other methodologies could be used and, providing they review much the same information, be equally effective.