Weather, and weather-related phenonmena, affect all phases of flight. Consequently, a preflight briefing sufficient to obtain an adequate understanding of the existing and forecast weather conditions is essential to flight safety. Numerous accident and incident reports, most significantly involving General Aviation (GA) VFR flights, have cited lack of weather awareness as a causal or contributing factor. Whilst there are ample sources available from which to obtain the information required to conduct an adequate self brief, there are also a number of impediments to making this happen. These include: Time - historically, the time allocated for preflight planning and preparation was typically in the range of 90 minutes to two hours, even for a crew that included a flight engineer, an air navigator and, possibly, a load master or cargo specialist. With advancing technologies and computer-generated flight plans, the standard flight crew now consists of two pilots. The allocated time for preflight duties has been reduced to as little as 30 minutes (with 60 as the "norm") to maximise crew utilisation in a regulatory environment of more restrictive duty day limitations. This often leads to only one pilot reviewing the weather whilst the other addresses other facets of the preflight preparation. Scope - some service providers include a brief synopsis of the weather with the flight package, highlighting significant weather and en route risks, and then tailor the information provided in the rest of the package to the specific requirements of the route and aircraft type. Others do not provide a synopsis and often include an overwhelming amount of extraneous data, often numbering 30 pages or more, making it difficult, and time consuming, to extract the pertinent information. Many pilots limit the scope of their self briefing to a review of the actual and forecast conditions for origin, en route diversion, destination and alternate aerodromes, omitting an examination of significant weather, en route conditions and potential hazards. Interpretation - many pilots, most often those flying in the general aviation, privately owned or hired aircraft community, have little (or no) formal training in the interpretation of weather products. Complacency - individuals that fly the same route(s) to a limited number of destinations, or planning to remain in the vicinity of their departure airfield, may become complacent as "the weather rarely changes". Corporate pressures - early arrival of a Business Aviation client can lead to the truncation, or the complete elimination, of the self brief as the crew shifts their priority to getting airborne as quickly as possible in an effort to reduce any customer delay.