Avoiding complacency and briefing adequately will provide sufficient understanding of the en route and terminal weather to allow an educated "go, no-go" decision, a sensible route and altitude selection, the appropriate choice of alternate and/or diversion aerodromes and to facilitate the calculation of an appropriate fuel load to ensure safety of flight. The challenges identified in the previous section can be overcome using some of the following strategies: Time - preflight time is almost always limited. Organise, prioritise and delegate as appropriate. Time can be saved by conducting an initial weather review in advance of the flight. Previewing the weather 12-24 hours in advance of a complex flight can provide insight into the expected conditions, allow preselection of route, altitude and alternate aerodromes and identify specific areas that will require closer examination just prior to execution. Scope - seek a service provider that will tailor the weather package to the specific flight and aircraft type and that provides a synopsis as well as the appropriate diversity in weather products. When self-selecting the weather products to review, ensure that they afford a true picture of the weather likely to be encountered. Interpretation - ensure that you are conversant with, and able to decode, all relevant meteorological information including graphical presentations such as Surface Analysis and Significant Weather charts and alphanumeric products such as TAFs and METARs. Both on-line and in-person instructional courses are available from NAA certified sources. Complacency - weather, and weather-related phenomena, affect all phases of flight. Pilots should acknowledge that perspective as a fundamental truth. In doing so, it will help to ensure that the self briefing for every flight, be it a short trip to the local practice area, a regional cross country or a transoceanic, international flight, will be appropriate and identify any weather hazards that might affect the flight. Corporate pressures - if duty day constraints allow, arrange your preflight duties to be ready to "turn engines" 30-40 minutes before the published departure time. If passengers arrive before preflight preparation is complete, be prepared to board them or hold them in the departure lounge, but delay start until you are ready..