An Investigation was carried out by the UK Airprox Board. It was established that both aircraft had been in compliance with the operating requirements applicable to Class ‘E’ airspace and that at the time of the conflict, the white-coloured Discus BT glider had been climbing in a thermal during a cross country VFR flight from and returning to a designated gliding site at Portmoak located 44 nm north east of Glasgow Airport. The in flight visibility was reported to have been around 30 km. The airspace involved was beneath Class ‘D’ airspace which commenced above 6000 feet and constituted a narrow corridor between adjacent blocks of Class ‘D’ airspace which extended on both sides below 6000 feet. The significant difference in Class ‘D’ for VFR traffic was noted to be the requirement to work the controlling ATC Unit and obtain a VFR clearance to operate, whereas there is no requirement for VFR traffic to work any radio frequency in Class ‘E’ airspace. It was found that the glider had a local non radar-equipped aerodrome frequency selected and was listening out with no evidence that he had called this facility. The glider was not fitted with a transponder. The Glasgow radar controller had been vectoring traffic ahead of the 757 in the sequence around the same Discus glider but as it was unknown traffic, this was noted to be good practice in the circumstances, but more than the requirements of the MATS Part 1 (general procedures). However, by the time the 757 was released for a visual contact approach, the radar return from the Discus was no longer reliable. The 757 had turned left towards the Glasgow final approach and the controller had advised the crew that the Discus radar return had faded in the area they were about to fly through and advised them to keep a good lookout. With the benefit of this assistance, they had spotted the glider about 1.5nm ahead at the same level and made a prompt turn to the right to avoid it, estimating separation achieved as 100 metres. The glider pilot reported not having seen the 757 until it passed by in the opposite direction. It was noted that NATS, the Glasgow ANSP, had previously submitted an Airspace Change Proposal for a reclassification of the part of the Glasgow CTA involved from Class 'E’ to Class ‘D’ on the basis that such action would enhance safety by establishing the airspace as a known traffic environment where all aircraft must be in contact with the controlling ATC unit.