have to be externally inspected, clearance was given to taxi to the East Apron where, on arrival, it was shut down and towed to a stand. Two damaged tyres were found and replaced and the otherwise undamaged aircraft subsequently departed after a delay of almost four hours. The towbar visible in front of the aircraft just before it began to taxi. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The damaged towbar on the taxi centreline. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The two ground crew involved, who were both qualified to act as either headset operators or tug drivers, subsequently provided statements which included, but were not limited to, the following remarks: The tug driver said that not connecting the towbar to the tug had occurred after he was distracted by seeing the headset operator walking away from the aircraft without the chock. He added that whilst he knew it was not his responsibility to remove the chock, he felt he should do so as he had previously witnessed another incident where a headset operator had left the chock behind and the aircraft had then taxied over it.. The headset operator was unable to explain why he did not remove the chock as usual. He added that sometimes a tug driver will place the chock on the towbar despite it not being their responsibility and added that he had occasionally done so when working as a tug driver. He “felt that the signal was primarily to show the steering bypass pin had been removed rather than to check the taxiway was clear” and observed that the procedure used did not require the ground crew involved to wait until an aircraft had commenced taxiing before departing the stand involved.. Safety Action taken during the Investigation by the ground handling service provider was recorded as including the addition of explicit procedural directives to those involved in a pushback as follows: The chock must be removed from the nosewheel by the headset operative.. The chock must be handed to the tug driver who stows it in a basket on the tug.. The tug driver immediately vacates the taxiway with the tug and towbar.. The tug driver parks in view of the aircraft and checks the area is clear in front of it.. After the tug has departed, the headset operative checks that the area in front of the aircraft is clear of equipment and FOD, and that the track to be taken is clear.. The tug driver waits for the aircraft to taxi to ensure they are no longer required.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 13 January 2022. No Safety Recommendations were made.