A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The 54 year old Captain of the flight involved had a total of 11,750 hours flying experience of which 9,570 hours were on type. The pushback from stand 99 on the West Apron was conducted by a ground crew consisting of a tug driver and a headset operator and was uneventful. On completion, a chock was placed in front of the nose wheels to prevent the aircraft from moving whilst the towbar was disconnected. At this point, the aircraft Captain advised the headset operator that he could disconnect his headset and he would await a ‘visual clearance’ signal and sight of the nosewheel steering bypass pin from the right hand side of the aircraft. Upon clearance from the headset operator, the tug driver reversed the tug slightly to allow him to disconnect the towbar from the tug which he then did and then removed the nosewheel steering bypass pin and disconnected his headset. Meanwhile, the tug driver turned the tug around and got out to re-connect the towbar to the rear of the tug. He placed the towbar on top of the rear attachment on the tug but before he secured it to the tug with a drop-in pin, he reported seeing the headset operator walking away from the aircraft with the chock still in front of the nosewheel (this was confirmed on CCTV, see the first illustration below). He then left the towbar on top of the attachment and retrieved the chock and placed it in the basket on the tug before driving clear to collect the headset operator without attaching the towbar to the tug so that it remained immediately in front of the aircraft. Thereafter, the headset operator signalled the visual clearance and once he had entered the vehicle, the tug was driven away in the direction of the towbar parking area before the aircraft had started to taxi. As the aircraft began to move forward with the Captain as PF, the First Officer reported having detected something similar to a momentary application of the toe brakes but on asking if the Captain had checked the brakes in this way, he replied that he had not. The abandoned tow bar had not been visible under the aircraft nose prior to the aircraft moving. When the tug arrived at the towbar parking area, the headset operator got out of the tug to disconnect the towbar to find it was not there and, having informed the tug driver, the latter immediately drove back to stand 99 without the headset operator. After entering the manoeuvring area without first obtaining ATC permission, he found that the towbar had sustained damage indicating the departing aircraft had taxied over it. He immediately informed ATC and his supervisor and the latter informed airport operations. By this time, the aircraft had reached the runway 27 holding point. After the crew had been informed of the situation by ATC and advised that the aircraft would