The following procedures apply to VFR traffic operating in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC). The following procedures apply to all aircraft operating at uncontrolled aerodromes except those aircraft that are following a standard instrument approach procedure. Prior to joining a traffic circuit, all pilots should announce their intentions and once in the circuit, make all of the appropriate position reports. The traffic circuit is generally flown at 1000' above airport elevation (AAE) and all turns in the circuit are to the left unless a right-hand circuit has been specified in the relevant publications. Pilots are expected to approach and land on the active runway. The active runway is a runway that other aircraft are using or are intending to use for the purpose of landing or taking off. Should it be necessary for an aircraft to land on, or take off from a runway other than the active runway, it is expected that the appropriate communication between the pilot and the ground station (if available) or between the pilot and other local traffic will take place to ensure that there are no conflicts. The following illustration depicts circuit joining and departure procedures at an uncontrolled aerodrome without Mandatory Frequency (MF) procedures (or equivalent) in place. For aerodromes without MF procedures or for aerodromes with MF procedures when airport advisory information IS NOT available, the following procedures are applicable: Whenever possible, aircraft should approach the traffic circuit from the upwind side. However, if the pilot has positively determined that either there is no other traffic or that there will be no conflict with other traffic entering the circuit or traffic established within the circuit, the pilot may also join the circuit on the downwind leg.. When joining from the upwind side, descend so as to cross the runway in level flight at the published circuit altitude or at 1000' AAE when no altitude is published. Maintain that altitude until further descent is required for landing. If it is necessary for an aircraft to cross the airport before joining the circuit, it is recommended that the crossover be accomplished at least 500' above the circuit altitude. All descents should be made on the upwind side or well clear of the circuit pattern.. If it is necessary for an aircraft to cross the airport before joining the circuit, it is recommended that the crossover be accomplished at least 500' above the circuit altitude.. All descents should be made on the upwind side or well clear of the circuit pattern.. For aerodromes within a Mandatory Frequency (MF) area (or equivalent) when airport advisory information IS available, pilots have additional circuit joining options: Aircraft may join the circuit pattern straight-in or at 45˚ to the downwind leg or straight-in to the base or final legs. Pilots should be alert for other VFR traffic entering the circuit at these positions and for IFR straight-in or circling approaches.. VFR aircraft departing the airport should climb straight ahead on the runway heading until reaching the circuit traffic altitude before