AMC1 to IR-OPS CAT.OP.MPA.305(e) and Appendix 1 to EU-OPS 1.430 define the required visual references for continuion of a precision approach or a non-precision approach as follows: Non-Precision Approach A pilot may not continue an approach below MDA/H unless at least one of the following visual references for the intended runway is distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot: (i) Elements of the approach light system; (ii) The threshold; (iii) The threshold markings; (iv) The threshold lights; (v) The threshold identification lights; (vi) The visual glide slope indicator; (vii) The touchdown zone or touchdown zone markings; (viii) The touchdown zone lights; (ix) Runway edge lights; or (x) Other visual references accepted by the Authority. Precision Approach A pilot may not continue an approach below the Category I decision height ... unless at least one of the following visual references for the intended runway is distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot: (i) Elements of the approach light system; (ii) The threshold; (iii) The threshold markings; (iv) The threshold lights; (v) The threshold identification lights; (vi) The visual glide slope indicator; (vii) The touchdown zone or touchdown zone markings; (viii) The touchdown zone lights; or (ix) Runway edge lights. Category II Operations A pilot may not continue an approach below the Category II decision height ... unless visual reference containing a segment of at least 3 consecutive lights being the centre line of the approach lights, or touchdown zone lights, or runway centre line lights, or runway edge lights, or a combination of these is attained and can be maintained. This visual reference must include a lateral element of the ground pattern, i.e. an approach lighting crossbar or the landing threshold or a barette of the touchdown zone lighting. Category IIIA Operations For Category IIIA operations, and for Category IIIB operations with failpassive flight control systems, a pilot may not continue an approach below the decision height ... unless a visual reference containing a segment of at least 3 consecutive lights being the centreline of the approach lights, or touchdown zone lights, or runway centreline lights, or runway edge lights, or a combination of these is attained and can be maintained. Category IIIB Operations For Category IIIB operations with fail-operational flight control systems using a decision height a pilot may not continue an approach below the Decision Height ... unless a visual reference containing at least one centreline light is attained and can be maintained.