allow distance to be judged and, without additional information from the weather radar or GPS, the crew...would not have known the distance to run accurately". It was found that the CHC Scotia Operations Manual stated that: the absolute minima for night VFR operations were 5000 metres visibility with a cloud base of 1,200 feet.. for visual flights between helidecks less than 10nm apart at night, the minimum forward visibility was 5000 metres and the cloud base must be such as to allow flight at 500 feet whilst clear of cloud.. Flying between helidecks at night when the cloud base was lower than 500 feet was only permissible if it was above the Airborne Radar Approach (ARA) limit of 300 feet and the crew are flying the ARA procedure.. It was noted that an ARA could be flown to ¾ nm from a platform as measured on the helicopter’s radar but that the accident helicopter crew "were not conducting an ARA during the flight to the North Morecambe platform and their previous approaches, to the AP1 and the Millom West platforms, were conducted visually". The Findings of the Investigation included the following: There was no evidence that any loss of airworthiness had contributed directly or indirectly to the loss of control which occurred.. Although the prevailing weather conditions were poor, they were above the required minima and not unusual for operations of the type being undertaken.. Both pilots were familiar with operations onto the North Morecambe platform and the lighting on the platform was serviceable - although it was of a type due to be upgraded from a colour regime which had been found to add difficulty to visual acquisition of helidecks at night in poor visibility.. The impact of the helicopter’s fuselage with the sea surface was not survivable.. The Investigation identified the following three Contributory Factors: The co-pilot was flying an approach to the North Morecambe platform at night, in poor weather conditions, when he lost control of the helicopter and requested assistance from the commander. The transfer of control was not precise and the commander did not take control until approximately four seconds after the initial request for help. The commander’s initial actions to recover the helicopter were correct but the helicopter subsequently descended into the sea.. The approach profile flown by the co-pilot suggests a problem in assessing the correct approach descent angle, probably, as identified in trials by the CAA, because of the limited visual cues available to him.. An appropriate synthetic training device for the SA365N was available but it was not used; the extensive benefits of conducting training and checking in such an environment were therefore missed.. Safety Action taken by CHC Scotia as a result of the accident findings was noted to have included the following: By the spring of 2008, all SA365 pilots had received simulator training.. More specific guidance has been provided to crews on the actions to be taken following disorientation or incapacitation.. Go around procedures which included guidance on