system in this kind of situation” primarily in the failure of the available indications to convey any sense of urgency or indicate the critical nature of the fuel leak. Once the crew had become aware of fuel imbalance, they cancelled the display of the engine page in order to view the fuel page but because of the nature of the advisory message this ECAM page did not automatically display a checklist procedure and it was necessary to first review the fuel system indications presented. The crew noted the flashing displays associated with the right wing tank and then, three minutes after the fuel imbalance advisory had been displayed, they initiated, by memory and without reference to the QRH, the fuel balancing procedure by opening the crossfeed valve and turning off the right wing tank pumps. At this stage, total fuel on board was 11 tonnes and 7.3 tonnes had already been lost. The effect of opening the crossfeed valve was that fuel from the left wing tanks was fed to the leak in the right engine. The QRH caution included prominently in the FUEL IMBALANCE drill stated that, in the event that a fuel leak was suspected, the FUEL LEAK drill should be followed. Soon after opening the crossfeed, the crew became aware of the significance of fuel loss and the consequent effect on estimated fuel on board (EFOB) at the planned destination. The response of the crew to this situation was to seek to resolve the discrepancy by reviewing fuel loading, flight planning documents and flight records for errors - none were found – and review engine and fuel system indications and displays to see if there were other indications of a problem with the engines, fuel flow or fuel system - none were found. Once the destination EFOB had reduced below that required, the Captain made the appropriate decision to divert to the nominated ETOPS alternate of Lajes. At the time the diversion was commenced, fuel on board had reduced to 8.7 tonnes with 9.3 tonnes of fuel having been lost and the fuel leak continuing at a rate of 13 tonnes/hour. The crew stated that whilst they were setting up the diversion, they had considered following the QRH Fuel Leak drill but had not done so because “they were still uncertain as to the validity of the fuel quantity indications and the precise nature of the problem”. Nine minutes into the diversion, the Captain reconfigured the crossfeed to “right to left instead of left to right” which conserved the remaining fuel for use by the left engine. As the diversion continued, the crew began over 10 minutes of HF communication with the Company Maintenance Control Centre but no useful result was obtained. Soon afterwards, the right engine flamed out with less than 1 tonne of fuel remaining. It was concluded that on the evidence available “the crew’s reaction to the engine failures and actioning of the required checklist procedures were in accordance with procedures specified in the