pilots. the design of automatic fuel transfer systems,. the acquisition and subsequent safeguarding of recorded flight data for investigation purposes and. the maintenance planning of major component changes.. Each of these was therefore made the subject of one or more of 12 Safety Recommendations issued at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Direction Genérale de l’Aviation Civile of France mandate the implementation of the FUEL FU/FOB DISCREPANCY Caution alert for all A-330 aircraft and mandate the incorporation of a fuel loss alert for other Airbus aircraft with similar fuel system design. [AA/2004]. that the Civil Aviation Authorities of other transport aircraft category manufacturing states, such as Canada, United States of America, and United Kingdom, as well as the European Aviation Safety Authority should review:. - the adequacy of aircraft indications and warning systems and procedures to detect fuel-used/fuel-loss discrepancy situations; - the capability of these systems to provide clear indications as to the causes of these situations; - the capability of these systems to provide alerts at a level commensurate with the criticality of a fuel-loss situation. [AB/2004] that the Direction Genérale de l’Aviation Civile of France, Transport Canada, Civil Aviation Authority of the United Kingdom, the Joint Aviation Authority, European Aviation Safety Authority, and the Civil Aviation Authorities of other States should:. - review flight crew operating manuals and checklist procedures to ensure that they contain adequate information related to fuel leak situations; - review flight crew training programs to ensure that they adequately prepare crews to diagnose and take appropriate actions to mitigate the consequences of fuel leak events; - amend regulations and standards to require crew training on fuel leak events. [AC/2004] that, as an interim safety measure, All Civil Aviation Authorities promulgate the circumstances of this fuel leak event to all air operators, aircraft manufacturers and flight crew training organisations. [AD/2004]. that the Direction Genérale de l’Aviation Civile of France, in consultation with Airbus should review the automated fuel-transfer systems on Airbus aircraft to ensure that the systems are able to detect abnormal fuel transfers, that systems exist and procedures are in place to inhibit abnormal transfers, and that the crews are notified, at an appropriate warning level, of abnormal fuel transfers. [AE/2004]. that the Direction Genérale de l’Aviation Civile of France and EASA should:. - review Airbus aircraft indication and warning systems and abnormal procedures to ensure that, in situations of major fuel imbalances, actioning of appropriate fuel leak procedures becomes a priority for flight crews; - consider merging the Airbus FUEL IMBALANCE and FUEL LEAK checklist procedures into one procedure, containing, at the top of the procedure, the conditions that would suggest the presence of a fuel leak. [AF/2004] that the Civil Aviation Authorities of other aircraft manufacturing states, such as Canada, United States of America, and United Kingdom, as well as the European Aviation Safety Authority should review the adequacy of the fuel indications and warning systems, as well as procedures associated with fuel imbalance situations to ensure that the