likely that in the investigated case, three factors had been influential in it: Framing Bias: the crew initially considered but elected not to carry out the fuel leak procedure;. Confirmation Bias: once they decided that the source of the abnormal indications was probably a computer malfunction, the crew did not modify this view through to the end of the CVR recording by which time the second (left hand) engine had flamed out;. Realignment of the Mental Model: the crew did not carry out the fuel leak procedure later in the flight even though they claimed to have identified the possibility.. The Investigation also noted that the automation management strategy prevalent in the A330, often described as “management by exception”, was inherently vulnerable to the creation of “automation surprises”. It was considered that in this event such a surprise had occurred when the automated fuel transfer process was no longer able to maintain the right wing fuel tank contents at the prescribed minimum level and had therefore shed the task to the flight crew and communicated this through the “Fuel Imbalance” ECAM Advisory Message. It was noted that both pilots had previously flown the Lockheed 1011 TriStar for the Air Transat, and had converted to the A330 only a relatively short time before the accident. The Captain had completed his training for the A330 just over a year earlier and the First Officer had done so eight months earlier. The Investigation examined previous fuel leak occurrences and noted that, since such leaks had been usually attributable to technical faults, few had been independently investigated as ‘Serious Incidents’ and even fewer had been analysed to review operational factors which might have increased their seriousness. It was observed that “although some regulatory agencies now require that AFMs include procedures that will enable flight crews to identify fuel system leaks and procedures for crews to follow to prevent further fuel loss” there were still a number of commercial aircraft operating without such guidance. The Emergency Evacuation The Investigation was advised that the emergency evacuation had been completed in approximately 90 seconds with the active involvement of all 11 cabin crew. It was attempted using all emergency exits and their slides with all except those at exit L3 functioning normally. The L3 door failed to open properly and the exit was not used. The only other problems noted with the evacuation from the cabin were as follows: Some passengers were reluctant to leave the aircraft and had to be “aggressively encouraged” to do so. Many passengers attempted to leave with their carry-on baggage; and. Two passengers with disabilities required assistance to reach / get onto evacuation slides.. Safety Action taken during the course of the Investigation by a number of agencies involved was noted. It included actions by Transport Canada, Air Transat, the DGAC France, Airbus, Rolls Royce and the UK CAA. Subject areas which it was considered by the Investigation still needed attention were: fuel leak detection and warning and fuel leak training for