possibility of a fuel leak is adequately considered. [AG/2004]. that Transport Canada and Direction Genérale de l’Aviation Civile of France and EASA should review the adequacy of applicable regulations, standards and aircraft manuals to ensure that necessary information and guidance is made available to the crews to properly safeguard on-board recordings following an occurrence. [AH/2004]. that the Civil Aviation Authorities of other states, as well as the European Aviation Safety Authority should review the adequacy of their regulations related to the safeguarding of on-board aircraft recordings. [AI/2004]. that the European Organisation for Civil Aviation Equipment, ICAO, all Civil Aviation Authorities and Safety Investigation Authorities should take into account the circumstances of this particular occurrence in their deliberations on the requirements for independent power supplies for on-board aircraft recordings. [AJ/2004]. that Transport Canada, and Direction Genérale de l’Aviation Civile of France, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the United Kingdom, as well as the EASA and Civil Aviation Authorities of other States responsible for the manufacture of aircraft and major-components should review applicable airworthiness regulations and standards, as well as aircraft, engines and component maintenance manuals, to ensure that adequate defences exist in the pre-installation maintenance planning process to detect major configuration differences and to establish the required support resources for technicians responsible for the work. [AK/2004]. that Transport Canada, Direction Genérale de l’Aviation Civile of France, and the Civil Aviation Authority of the United Kingdom, as well as the European Aviation Safety Authority and civil aviation authorities of other states, in conjunction with aircraft and major component manufacturers should review the adequacy of the current standards for identifying the configuration and modification status of major components to ensure that differences between major components of similar part numbers can be easily identified. [AL/2004]. The Final Report was completed on 17 September 2004 and published on 18 October 2004