An Investigation was carried out by the Portuguese Office of Accident Investigation, the GPIAA. All but the last nineteen minutes of Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data (when the electrical power status was too low to power the FDR) was available to assist the Investigation. However 90 minutes of the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recording was found upon downloading to have been overwritten when electrical power was restored to the aircraft after the arrival at Lajes. The history of the investigated event was reconstructed from the available evidence. It was found that that aircraft commander had been the designated PF and that the aircraft had departed Toronto with 5.5 tonnes more fuel than the minimum fuel required. The flight crew stated that until after crossing 30º West, all had proceeded normally but soon after this, they had noticed abnormal engine oil indications on the right hand (No 2) engine. The oil indications taken from the Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM) display had been passed by HF radio to the Operator’s Maintenance Control Centre (MCC). Half an hour later, annunciation of an ECAM Advisory of ‘Fuel Imbalance’ presented the crew with their first awareness of a fuel problem. To correct lower fuel contents in the right wing tanks than in the left wing tanks, the crew selected the cross feed valve OPEN and the right-wing fuel pumps OFF. Fifteen minutes later, the remaining fuel dropped below the minimum required to reach the planned destination and the crew initiated the diversion to Lajes Airport on Terceira Island in the Azores, advising ATC of this “due to fuel shortage” three minutes later. Soon after this, the crossfeed flow was reversed, an action which the crew advised had been “to use up the fuel from the right wing and to counter the possibility that the fuel loss was the result of a leak in the right wing tanks”. The Company MCC was then contacted again on HF, advising the inexplicable low fuel quantity readings - at this time, fuel on board was 4.8 tonnes rather than expected 16.8 tonnes and the crew advised that “they could not determine what the problem was, that the fuel indication was continuing to reduce and that the apparent fuel leak was happening in the right-wing inner tanks”. When the aircraft was at FL390 and 150 miles from Lajes, the right engine flamed out. The crew notified Santa Maria Oceanic Control of this and that the flight was descending. Ten minutes later, a MAYDAY was declared to ATC and three minutes after this, with the aircraft now 65 nm from Lajes passing approximately FL345, the left engine flamed out. The ‘ALL ENG FLAME OUT’ Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) drill was completed and the descent on track continued. After transfer to Lajes APP still in VMC, radar vectors and flashing of the runway lights were used to guide the aircraft. It arrived about 8 miles off the approach end of runway 33 at approximately FL130 on a westerly track