to some extent crew distraction - caused by the abnormal engine oil indications which initially attracted the attention of the flight crew had been the consequence of a high rate of fuel-flow through the fuel/oil heat exchanger. The suddenness of these changes and the fact that there were no abnormal procedures or information for a combination of abnormal but individually within-limits high oil pressure, low oil quantity and low oil temperature had engendered “a level of uncertainty” in the flight deck which the Company MCC had been unable to explain. With these unusual the oil parameters within their individually-specified operating limits, no diversion to an ETOPS alternate was required on that account by any extant regulation or procedure. It was established that the fuel leak had begun almost two hours before the eventual emergency landing had occurred but noted that a fuel problem had not been noticed by the crew until 55 minutes later when an ECAM Fuel Advisory Message stating that a Fuel Imbalance existed was generated. By this time, the fuel on board had dropped to just over 12 tonnes after 6.65 tonnes of fuel had been lost. It was noted that there would have been a number of indications on the flight deck that there was a fuel-loss problem during this 55 minute period including: the FOB figures on the Engine Warning Display (EWD) page which would have shown that fuel on board was decreasing at an abnormal rate.. The estimate of the expected quantity of fuel expected to be on board on arrival at destination displayed on the MCDU was decreasing markedly.. The transfer forward of the fuel in the trim tank to the wing tanks which occurred during the period would have resulted in the display of “TRIM TANK XFR” for almost 20 minutes followed by the message “TRIM TANK XFRD” for three minutes. Such indications were premature given the fuel on board on departure of almost 47 tonnes, although it was accepted that they “would have been unremarkable” because they are routinely seen during transatlantic flights.. The Investigation considered that other factors were also likely to have contributed to the failure of the flight to detect a low fuel quantity problem until the imbalance annunciation: The only fuel check required under SOPs was carried out at a time when the fuel remaining was very similar to that planned/expected.. The awareness of unusual oil readings “created a level of uncertainty” which led to the flight crew becoming pre-occupied in action to resolve the ambiguities, including reviewing on board documentation and contacting the Maintenance Control Centre by HF radio.. The transfer of fuel from the trim tank already referred to included transfer into the right wing tank which masked the fuel leak and delayed the generation of the fuel imbalance advisory message by approximately 15 minutes.. The Investigation considered that the fact that this flight crew had missed all of these ‘early warning signs’ of a fuel leak “highlights the limitations of the warning and alert