FCOM” and that overall “the performance of cockpit duties, interface with cabin crew, and communications with air traffic were professional and highly effective”. It was further concluded that: “The Captain’s handling of the aircraft during the engines-out descent and landing was remarkable given the facts that the situation was stressful, it was night time, there were few instruments available, pitch control was limited, and he had never received training for this type of flight profile. The Captain’s decision to apply and maintain maximum braking on the second touchdown was justified based on the facts that the aircraft speed was well above the recommended speed when crossing the threshold, and that, following the initial bounce, the aircraft touched down significantly beyond the normal touchdown zone. The First Officer provided full and effective support to the Captain during the engines-out glide and successful landing”. It was established that neither pilot had any previous experience of a significant fuel imbalance during flying operations nor been exposed to a fuel leak situation in either actual operations or during training. However, the Investigation observed that, if either of the key actions in the ‘FUEL LEAK’ drills - for a leak from an engine (shut that engine down) or for a fuel leak not from an engine or a leak not located (do not open the crossfeed) had been followed in response to the ‘FUEL IMBALANCE’ advisory or at any time up to 9 minutes after the diversion had been initiated, fuel in the left wing tanks would have been sufficient to reach Lajes with the left engine still operating. It was recognised that notwithstanding clear indications that there had been a massive loss of fuel, the crew had not come to such a conclusion. The Investigation considered that a number of factors supported their inaccurate mental model of the situation: The combination of the suddenness and the magnitude of the indicated fuel loss were such that it could not be linked to any explainable reason.. The earlier (perceived) problem with the oil indications had established a level of uncertainty.. There was no ECAM warning or caution message indicating a severe problem.. No other indication of an engine problem was discovered.. Some information, such as the cabin crew confirming that there were no visible signs of a leak, countered the possibility of a leak.. As the situation had developed, it was noted that the crew, realising that the situation was deteriorating, had concluded that a computer malfunction would account for the ‘ambiguous’ fuel indications and their lack of training for or experience of a fuel leak meant that they had nothing to counter the basis for their hypothesis. Since the actions of the flight crew had clearly not been appropriate to the circumstances and more appropriate ones, even at quite a late stage in the developing sequence of events, could have avoided complete fuel exhaustion and the (nevertheless well handled) challenges this presented, the Investigation considered the nature of crew decision-making and concluded that it was