and the Captain advised ATC that he was making a left hand 360° turn to lose height during which the leading-edge slats and landing gear were deployed. Once on final, S-turns were made in order to lose excess altitude and the aircraft crossed the runway 33 threshold at about 200 knots, made a firm touchdown in the TDZ and bounced before a final touchdown some 850 metres from the beginning of the 3050 metre long runway. Maximum braking was applied and the aircraft came to a stop just under 750 metres before the end of the runway. Some small fires started in the vicinity of the left main landing gear assembly but they were immediately extinguished by Rescue and Fire Fighting Services vehicles which were already in position. The Captain ordered an emergency evacuation during which two passengers sustained serious injuries and fourteen others and two of the cabin crew sustained minor injuries. The Investigation determined that the Cause of the double-engine flameout had been fuel exhaustion, which had resulted from a fuel leak developing in the right engine following inappropriate use of mismatched fuel and hydraulic lines during the installation of the engine hydraulic pump during an engine change prior to the flight. The fact that fuel exhaustion followed was found to be the direct result of the crew not performing the QRH/ECAM ‘FUEL LEAK’ procedure that was specifically designed by the manufacturer to reduce the consequences of any in-flight fuel leak. Once all the available facts had been documented, the Investigation therefore focused on the following two areas: Why the aircraft maintenance organisation did not detect the mismatch in engine configurations prior to beginning the engine change; then why, once the configuration difference was detected during the engine change, the installation of the hydraulic pump and hydraulic and fuel lines was not completed in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications;. Why a qualified flight crew trained in accordance with approved training programs, while attempting to analyse the situation and taking actions in reaction to the situation, did not take the actions prescribed by the manufacturer to mitigate the consequences of a fuel leak situation, and (instead) took action that exacerbated the situation.. The Maintenance Error It was found that the replacement of the right (No, 2) engine on the aircraft had been achieved using an engine with a pre-modification hydraulic tube assembly which was incompatible with a post-modification fuel tube with the result that, in subsequent flight, the fuel tube had fractured after contact with the hydraulic line causing the fuel leak to begin. It was found that when the spare (loan) engine had arrived at Air Transat’s premises at Montreal on 1 August 2001, it had been processed in accordance with the applicable procedures. These involved only an inventory check (which did not include any review of SB modification status) and verification that any parts on the “Carry Forward Items List” were available. It was found that “all the A330 engines in use at the company were in the