radar display was activated. Immediately after this began, the controller transmitted to the 777 “I see you're going southbound, turn south, correction I see you going northbound now, turn south now, climb and maintain seven thousand" to which there was no response. A repeat of the instruction received the response "[unintelligible] right turn to southbound, continue climb seven thousand" followed by a re-iteration "continue right turn and ah climb to seven thousand to a heading one eight zero". Eight seconds after the ATC LA Alert had begun, an EGPWS ‘Caution Terrain’ alert was activated on the 777 for 4 seconds and after an 8 second gap, repeated for a further 4 seconds. The aircraft was climbing towards rising terrain as it continued its right turn to approach and then pass just south of the summit of Mount Wilson. Four seconds after the second of these terrain alerts, with the aircraft continuing to turn right, passing through northeast and climbing through approximately 5,200 feet in IMC, an EGPWS PULL UP Warning began. The crew responded immediately by disconnecting the AP, pitching up and increasing thrust from 79% NI to 93% N1. The Warning continued for 7 seconds, during which time the aircraft rate of climb increased from 1,500 fpm to 3,200 fpm. Thereafter, the turn was continued and high thrust was maintained and due to the height gained in response to the PULL UP Warning, there were no further EGPWS activations. The illustration below shows the aircraft ground track annotated with time and aircraft altitude beginning just as the PULL UP Warning ceases at 5,400 feet. It can be seen that the aircraft then just avoids a number of TV masts rising respectively to 6,630 feet amsl, 6,112 feet amsl, 6,174 feet amsl and 6,224 feet amsl. The last of these is the one which the aircraft came closest to and it was approximately 0.3 nm away as the aircraft passed through a recorded 6,300 feet. The controller’s LA Alert continued for 75 seconds during which time there were no further communications between the 777 and the controller although they again instructed Los Angeles TWR to stop departures. About a minute after the LA Alert had ceased, the 777 called reporting on heading 180° at 7,000 feet and received in response an instruction to "climb and maintain, ah maintain seven thousand". Upon levelling at 7000 feet on the heading 180°, the AP had been re-engaged. The Captain sought to query with the controller the unexpected left turn instruction which had been given on departure and the response was reported as having been “they will look into that”. There were no further exchanges relevant to the event between the 777 and the sector controller involved or any subsequent controller. Unrelated in any direct way to the event under investigation, it nevertheless noted that whilst the sector controller was vectoring the 777, another aircraft went around from an approach to runway 09R and when TWR requested an initial heading and level for it,