“expedite your right turn” to which the flight replied with “[unintelligible] passing heading 010, continue heading”. Aware of a Boeing 787-8 which needed to be de-conflicted from the 777, the controller then made a series of transmissions in quick succession, not allowing much time in between except for a read back: to an Air Canada Boeing 787-8 that was about 5½ nm west of the 777 to expedite its climb and turn left heading 360°. to the 777, which had just passed 5000 feet climbing as previously cleared to 7000 feet to "stop your climb". to the 787 to “expedite to 12,000 feet”. to the 777 to "turn left, left turn to a heading of ah, two nine ah, correction two seven zero" which was acknowledged correctly. to the 777 “what are you doing, turn southbound now, southbound now, stop your climb" to which the flight replied "confirm EVA015 heavy, maintain 5,000, left, right, right heading [unintelligible]".. The controller then called the Los Angeles arrivals sector controller and requested a “point out” on the 777 which was approved along with a caution to “watch out for the minimum vectoring altitudes (MVAs) due to rising terrain”. NB: the non-ICAO term ‘Point Out’ is used by the FAA ATO to mean “a physical or automated action taken by a controller to transfer the radar identification of an aircraft to another controller if the aircraft will or may enter the airspace or protected airspace of another controller and radio communications will not be transferred”. The term ‘Point Out Approved’ is used to inform the controller initiating a point out that the aircraft is identified and that approval is granted for the aircraft to enter the receiving controller's airspace, as coordinated, without a communications transfer or the appropriate automated system response. Immediately after this, the 777, now south east of Pasadena (see the illustration below) and continuing in a left turn requested confirmation of the assigned heading and received the response "turn southbound, southbound now" which was read back as given. Twenty seconds later, the 777 began to change from a left turn to a right turn, taking it towards 5,700 feet high Mount Wilson which had several tall masts on its southern flank, the tallest being 970 feet. The MVA for this area was 7,800 feet. Thirteen seconds after the right turn had commenced, the controller instructed the 777 to "climb and maintain five thousand, and ah, are you, are you southbound now, I see you going northbound, climb and maintain six thousand" and received the response "roger, turning ah, we are turning south and ah maintain five thousand” but the incorrect altitude read back was not challenged. After stopping her transmissions to the 777 just long enough to tell Los Angeles TWR to stop departures, she then immediately re-cleared the 777 to "climb and maintain seven thousand" which was correctly acknowledged. Almost immediately, with the aircraft passing north as it continued turning right, the visual Low Altitude (LA) Alert on the controller’s