An Investigation into the serious incident was carried out by the NTSB with a considerable amount of the effort delegated to FAA ATO personnel. Relevant ATC radar and RTF data were available and a copy of the EGPWS NVM data from the flight was provided to the NTSB by the aircraft operator. Statements from the PF Captain and the operating First Officer were also submitted and their content was consistent with the recorded data accessed during the Investigation. Two other pilots were on board, a First Officer and a Senior First Officer. NB: The Final Report on this CFIT-risk incident is significantly less comprehensive than NTSB Reports on such serious events typically are and it appears that the investigation on which it is based, even allowing for reference to the contents of the supporting Docket, did not consider all aspects of the event. To assist in creating a useful summary, reference has had to be made to information from the Docket to supplement the contents of the Report. Note also that the absence in this summary of any reference to the explicit identification of systemic safety issues and the combined absence of any reference to subsequent safety action by the FAA ATO or, in the absence of this, the apparent absence of any Safety Recommendations reflect the content of both the Report and the Docket. It was noted that until just over an hour prior to the investigated event, the airport had been operating in the usual westerly configuration but surface winds became predominantly easterly at 8 gusting to 15 knots and several aircraft making westerly approaches then went around due to an excessive tail wind component. A change to the rarely-used easterly configuration was made in response until wind velocity changed about an hour after the investigated event and the operating configuration could then be changed back to the normal westerly one. It was established that after lining up on runway 07R, the aircraft had been given takeoff clearance on a VENTURA 7 SID. This required a climb after takeoff on a heading of 071° until receiving radar vectors to the VTU VOR/DME. Shortly after the aircraft became airborne, it was transferred to the applicable Southern California TRACON (SCT) sector frequency and, on checking in there and reporting passing 1,900 feet for 5,000 feet having been airborne for approximately 3 minutes, was instructed to climb and maintain 7,000 feet and fly heading 090° which was correctly acknowledged. The first illustration below shows the ground track flown by the aircraft from takeoff until safely established southbound. One minute later, the controller instructed the flight to “turn left heading of 180, climb and maintain 7,000" which would have required a 270° turn. When acknowledging this, a "high speed climb" was requested and approved. As the aircraft commenced this (additional radius) left turn, the controller then instructed it to "turn right, right turn heading one eight zero" which was acknowledged and as the right turn began the controller transmitted to the 777