the sector controller gave “090° to stop at 2,000 feet” which was contrary to easterly procedures which required a climb to 3,000 feet and differed from the westerly go around procedure which did require the climb to stop at 2,000 feet. As a result, this other aircraft entered an area with a 2,700 MVA at 2,000 feet. The Investigation focused almost exclusively on the performance of the TRACON sector controller involved and relied heavily on related FAA investigations carried out within the unit involved. The performance of the 777 flight crew was not examined other than superficially but on the strength of the information available, in particular the EGPWS data download provided by EVA Air and included in the NTSB Docket for the Investigation, there was no evidence that it had contributed to the event other than through understandable confusion caused to a foreign flight crew without English as their native language by the controller’s issue of inappropriate, poorly specified and needlessly repetitive instructions throughout. In respect of the controller’s performance, it was noted that she had been certified for all SCT positions since 2014 and was designated as an OJTI. It was also noted that although annual refresher training on the rarely-used Los Angeles easterly configuration including both briefings and the working of simulation scenarios was mandatory, the controller involved had not completed these required simulations. It was noted that SCT Unit SOPs required that all easterly departures from Los Angeles routed to the VTU VOR were to be given a right turn onto a radar heading of 250° and climbed on that heading to 13,000 feet or above. In respect of the reporting of the occurrence, the Investigation found considerable evidence that there had been an attempt to play down the safety significance of the investigated event within the FAA. Although an internal MOR was submitted by the SCT TRACON duty Operations Manager later the same day via the FAA Regional Operations Centre, it was determined on review by the responsible person in the “Compliance Services Group” that “the incident was not serious enough to warrant a services rendered telecon (SRT) and no further reporting of the incident would be required”. It was noted that the required calculation of the incident’s Measure of Compliance (MOC) was not made during this review whereas “according to the FAA, any reported or detected loss of separation between other aircraft or terrain and obstructions that falls below 66% of the required separation is considered a risk analysis event (RAE) and an SRT may be initiated”. The controller involved did not complete an Air Traffic Safety Action Program (ATSAP) Report within the required 24 hours and the FAA declined to disclose to the Investigation whether the report eventually submitted had been accepted by the Event Review Committee (ERC). On the evidence presented, the effectiveness of both the FAA ATO Quality Assurance Program (QAP) and its Quality Control Program (QCP) in ensuring an appropriate response to the event and in particular ensuring a meaningful