Cockpit workload is very high during take-off. Distracting pilots after issuing a take-off clearance is generally considered unsafe.. The controller does not know the value of V1 for each flight, as it depends on a number of factors (e.g. aircraft type and weight, flap setting, pressure altitude, runway condition, air temperature, etc).. Usually pilots have better situational awareness of whether or not the aircraft is unsafe to fly. They also might have better situational awareness in case of a runway incursion.. The crew may choose not to comply with an instruction to abort the take-off. This should be considered with respect to the safety of other traffic.. The crew might elect to execute an early rotation during the take-off roll, risking a tail strike, in order to avoid an obstacle on the runway, e.g.: B742 / B744, Chicago O'Hare IL USA, 1999.. The speed up to which a takeoff should be rejected for all observed failures, varies between 70-100 kt with a typical value of 80 kt or 100 kt.. A rejected takeoff (RTO) above 80 kt (100 kt in some aircraft types) is considered high-speed RTO.. In general, high speed rejected take-offs should only occur in response to a major malfunction. In the high speed regime prior to V1, pilots will reject for any engine failure, any fire indication or any other circumstance recommended by the aircraft manufacturer. A system malfunction is, on many types, not sufficient reason for a high speed reject and the failure warning may even be inhibited from above a specific speed until after the aircraft is safely airborne to avoid unnecessary distraction.. According to “Rejecting a take-off after V1, why does it still happen?” (See Further Reading) about 50% of the pilot decisions for high speed rejected take-offs have been considered incorrect after investigation completion.. According to “Rejecting a take-off after V1, why does it still happen?” a rejected take-off initiated after V1 is very likely to result in a runway excursion. Analysis of such occurences shows that in 90% of these cases, the aircraft could not be stopped on the runway.. In case of runway incursion the aircraft may collide with the obstacle regardless of whether the take-off has been aborted or continued.. Controllers should normally consider continuation of the take off run preferable to issuance of instruction for RTO at high speed, even when executed from wrong runway (or from taxiway). In this case, however, an informed certainty must exist that the take off will be successful and there are no hazards along the runway/taxiway..