However, since copies of relevant maintenance documentation had not been available and in particular because neither the flight recorders nor relevant items of wreckage had been recovered, it was impossible to identify a definitive explanation for the malfunction which had been the origin of the collision. As context for the performance of Senegalair as an aircraft operator, it was noted that: Although the Company was based in Dakar, "agency responsible for the aircraft was in South Africa" and it was considered that "this type of organization can create enormous problems if the operator does not have the resources to deal with unserviceability which result in the grounding of the aircraft or operating restrictions".. In the weeks leading up to the collision, the Company had only one airplane in operation, only one qualified flight crew and only one qualified ground engineer. This situation was considered to have been conducive to an increased risk, respectively, of the continued aircraft use in non-compliant conditions (as in case of non-compliant RVSM operations), exceeding pilot flight time limitations with increased chances of fatigue (as was found to have occurred in a sequence of 5 flights on 31 August 2015) and compromised dispatch airworthiness (as occurred when the only engineer left on 15 August 2015 and approval of their replacements South African-issued Licence was still pending at the time of the collision).. the Algerian Pilot Licence held by the 125 First Officer had not been validated to permit him to act as pilot on a Senegalese-registered aircraft.. In respect of ATC, it was additionally noted that: the quality of VHF radio communications on UA601 between the 'TD' VOR and the GATIL waypoint which included the area where the collision occurred was poor.. there was nobody acting as operations supervisor in the Dakar ACC control room which was prejudicial to air navigation safety.. declaration of the applicable sequence of emergency phases following the report of a collision and the loss of radio communications had not been followed by ATC with no INCERFA or ALERFA phases declared. Not until 35 minutes after the 125 had appeared on radar at the wrong level and was already not responding to radio calls over a prolonged period did ATC (Dakar APP) request the preparation of a DETRESFA message. At this point the aircraft was passing overhead the Dakar VOR at FL350 and the DETRESFA phase was not activated (by Dakar Control) for a further 11 minutes as the aircraft disappeared from radar.. the ANSP ASECNA (L'Agence pour la Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar) only informed the ANACIM (the Senegal Civil Aviation and Meteorology Agency) of two serious ATS incidents caused by the 125 involved in the collision under investigation after a "significant delay".. The Probable Cause of the collision was formally recorded as: "The HS125's non-compliance with its flight level - it was at the FL 350 which was the level assigned to the Boeing 737 even though minutes before the collision, its crew had confirmed