a squawk of 5004 instead of the assigned 5040. It was observed to continue at FL 350 and pass overhead its destination at that level before continuing on the same track out to sea. When the aircraft reached 48 nm beyond Dakar some 55 minutes after the collision had occurred, the radar returns showed it leaving FL 350 and almost immediately turning to the right and then to the left. Descent continued and the aircraft disappeared from radar as it passed FL 126 at 59 nm from Dakar. The 737 departed Dakar having filed a flight plan to cruise at FL350. It was transferred from TWR to APP and initially cleared to climb only to FL 290 because of conflicting traffic. Once this had been passed, it was re-cleared to FL350 and transferred to Dakar Control which instructed it to maintain FL350 and report at GATIL. Fourteen minutes later the 737 called at GATIL and was instructed to contact Bamako Control. Only then did the crew advise that they had just passed an opposite direction aircraft descending through their level and that they wanted to file a "near miss collision" concerning this traffic which they initially said had "passed very close to them". ATC acknowledged this and immediately called the 125 but there was no response. The 737 crew then said that they suspected that the traffic in question had struck their wing but that "everything is OK and under control". On hearing this, ATC then advised the 737 crew of the 125 traffic heading for Dakar which had been cleared in the opposite direction at FL 340. It was subsequently established that the 737 crew had not only seen the other traffic but had "felt a shock" and had seen afterwards that the right winglet was torn at the top. The aircraft was eventually transferred to Bamako and it subsequently did not land in Cotonou as planned but overflew it and went directly to the Operator's base in Malabo Equatorial Guinea, which required more than three hours flight after the collision. After landing, damage to the upper right side winglet which corresponded with the crew's accounts of the collision was found (see illustration). The assembled evidence indicated the following: the 125 had passed the GATIL waypoint eastbound at the about the same time as the 737 had passed the DEMOL waypoint westbound and that the collision has occurred approximately midway between these two positions 8 minutes after the 125 had made its last radio call.. the collision occurred in RVSM airspace and both of the aircraft involved were RVSM-approved.. although the TCAS equipment on the 737 was serviceable, it did not produce an RA in respect of the proximity of the 125.. although the 125 crew had correctly read back their cleared level as F340, they were actually level at FL350 when the collision occurred.. the airspace in the south east of Senegal was outside ATC radar coverage.. after the 125 had not flown between 29 November 2014 and