10 July 2015, a minor discrepancy (200 feet) was reported between the altitudes displayed on the two main altimeters.. This discrepancy was taken by the Investigation to be an indication that "at least one of the two transponders was transmitting different altitudes to those indicated by the altimeter of the pilot in charge of communications".. Despite this, the aircraft was "returned to service without intervention on its altimetry system" with a request for a further report.. It was noted that the Senegalair Operations Manual prohibited entry into RVSM airspace if there was a difference of two hundred feet or more between the two primary altimeters.. Despite this, the next flight - to Robertsfield, Liberia and back overnight on 22/23 July, involved use of RVSM airspace. During the return leg, the Captain of an Arik Air Boeing 737 reported that the 125 had indicated on his TCAS display that it was 1,000 feet clear of the level of his aircraft when it was visible at the same level. It was concluded by the Investigation that this had demonstrated that at that time "at least one of the two transponders had been transmitting different altitudes to those indicated by the altimeter being used by the pilot in charge of communications".. After the aircraft completed its flying on 23 July 2015, no defect entry was made in the aircraft's Technical Log and "the company engineer signed the Certificate of Release to Service and the operation of the aircraft continued in this condition in RVSM space until 05 September 2015".. On 31 August 2015, the aircraft was detected by a West African Height Monitoring Site at FL 360 but when it came into radar cover, it was detected at FL 350 "without any revision or authorisation" and began a climb to FL360.. on the outbound flight from Dakar to Ouagadougou on the day of the accident, the 125 had triggered a Clearance Level Adherence Monitoring (CLAM) alert over eastern Senegal when it was detected level at FL 310 whilst cleared to fly level at FL 330.. The Investigation considered possible explanations for the un-rectified altimetry discrepancy and concluded that the most likely explanation, as foreseen in ICAO PANS-ATM, could be that the selected transponder was faulty, in which case a radar-equipped ATC Unit would have been able to see that the aircraft was not at the assigned altitude and request that the alternate transponder be used to ensure that the safety net provided by TCAS would be effective. Alternatively, but considered less likely, would be if there was an undetected discrepancy between the altitudes displayed on the two main altimeters with the faulty altimeter on the same side as the engaged AP but with the opposite side transponder in use. In that case, the AP would take up the (wrong) altitude but the transponder would correctly transmit this altitude so that again, a radar equipped ATC Unit would be aware. In this case however, TCAS would continue to function pending detection of the error.