to ATC that they were maintaining FL 340. The Captain of the Boeing 737 reported having seen the other aircraft descend into them." The Investigation also identified two Contributory Factors as follows: Altimetry problems on the HS125 may have contributed to the collision.. Non-compliance with procedures in the Senegalair Operations Manual which prohibited their entering RVSM space if the difference in the reading on the two primary altimeters was more than 200 feet (or more than 75 feet when preparing for the flight).. A total of 11 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: Four Safety Recommendations were made in the Preliminary Report published on 14 December 2015: that l'Agence pour la Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar (ASECNA) should improve the quality of HF radio communication in areas where there is no radar coverage.. that l'Agence pour la Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar (ASECNA) should ensure that it strictly enforces the time limits for filing ATS incident reports in accordance with Aeronautics Regulation No. 13 (RAS 13) [which covers the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents].. that l'Agence pour la Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar (ASECNA) should immediately introduce supervisors to oversee Executive and Planning Controllers as recommended in the Dakar ACC Operations Manual.. that l'Agence pour la Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar (ASECNA) should ensure that controllers rigorously apply the procedures for the initiation of an emergency.. Seven more Safety Recommendations were made on completion of the Investigation: that the Senegal National Agency for International Civil Aviation and Meteorology (ANACIM) should require that air traffic control ensures an appropriate increased vertical separation (2000 feet for example) around an aircraft as soon as a flight crew casts doubt on its vertical position or as soon as they have a justified doubt about the altitude of their aircraft that the pilot cannot clearly identify and then, as soon as possible, exit RVSM airspace. Aircraft Operators should be required to include in their Operations Manual a procedure for altitude uncertainty. Such a procedure could, inter alia, require the flight crew to make comparisons between various altimeters to remove the doubt, noting that the STANDBY altimeter uses an independent static source.. that the Senegal National Agency for International Civil Aviation and Meteorology (ANACIM) should sensitise the various services concerned into strict compliance with the checklists related to the issuance of documents; on the absolute rigour which must accompany the application of any proceedings and that as soon as it is informed, the inspection of aircraft likely to present a hazard is made without delay.. that l'Agence pour la Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar (ASECNA) should, in accordance with the triggering procedure for the emergency phases laid down in ICAO Annex 11, include the circumstances which may justify such measures following the first unsuccessful attempt at communication in its procedures.. that l'Agence pour la Sécurité