Improved pilot and ATCO training to ensure that pilots and ATCOs understand and follow SOPs, particularly with regard to: Radio Discipline; Prevention of blocked transmissions Emergency Communications.. Radio Discipline;. Prevention of blocked transmissions. Emergency Communications.. Recognise and understand respective pilot and ATCO working environments and constraints.. Listen to other communications on the frequency to build situational awareness, avoid talking over transmissions by other users, and be alert to potential call sign confusion.. Promotion of, and training in, Crew Resource Management in order to ensure that SOPs are applied in best possible way to ensure: The flight clearance is understood. This includes checking to ensure that both pilots agree and understand the flight clearance (cross-checking is a role overseen by the monitoring pilot/crew member); The aircraft follows the flight clearance and does not unintentionally deviate from it. This includes checking the settings made to technical equipment and monitoring the performance of that equipment and the aircraft in order to detect any error or malfunction.. The flight clearance is understood. This includes checking to ensure that both pilots agree and understand the flight clearance (cross-checking is a role overseen by the monitoring pilot/crew member);. The aircraft follows the flight clearance and does not unintentionally deviate from it. This includes checking the settings made to technical equipment and monitoring the performance of that equipment and the aircraft in order to detect any error or malfunction.. Action within ATM to improve Team Resource Management, thereby ensuring that: The flight crew understand the flight clearance; Deviation from an essential element of the clearance is detected and corrected at an early point.. The flight crew understand the flight clearance;. Deviation from an essential element of the clearance is detected and corrected at an early point.. Improved technical equipment..