An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transport Safety Board. DFDR, QAR and CVR data were recovered and used to assist the Investigation. The Captain had accumulated a total of 18,223 flying hours which included 11,998 hours on older DHC8 variants but only 59 hours on the DHC8-400. The First Officer, who was PF for the flight, had accumulated a total of 2,800 total flying hours which included 1,500 hours on the type variant involved. As the flight approached rotation during take off from Calgary, there was "a noticeable vibration that ended once the aircraft was airborne". Once the aircraft was established in the climb, the flight crew discussed the vibration. They were informed by the cabin crew that the no 3 main gear tyre "had blown" and that "something had struck the aft fuselage". Strong crosswinds prevented a turnback to Calgary and after checking with the Company, it was decided to divert to Edmonton in order to change aircraft before proceeding to the intended destination. Company maintenance personnel "recommended that a hard landing be avoided". During the approach to land on runway 02 at Edmonton, the crew observed that the usual landing gear down and locked indications were present but just over 2 seconds after a "very light" touchdown, "a pronounced vibration shook the aircraft" and whilst the NLG was still airborne, the right MLG collapsed. The right hand side propeller blades struck the runway and were all sheared off on contact. One "large section of a propeller blade" penetrated the fuselage in line with row 7. As the propeller hit the runway, the NLG came down hard, its tyres ruptured and it collapsed rearward. The aircraft slid slightly towards the right before coming to a stop with the collapsed MLG, the fuselage and the collapsed NLG on the grass to the right side of the runway some 975 metres beyond the touchdown point which was 740 metres beyond the runway threshold. DFDR data showed that the touchdown had been "light" and that the right hand MLG had collapsed at a speed of 105 KCAS whilst the power levers were being retarded into reverse. The evacuation of occupants was ordered by both cabin crew 16 seconds after the aircraft had come to a stop. It began via door 2L seven seconds later and was completed in less than a minute using all 4 exits. Passenger injuries to the occupants of seats a 7F, 8F and 7C prior to the evacuation were found to have been "the result of the partial propeller blade that punctured the fuselage" and were "consistent with plastic pieces in the cabin interior (side wall, window, etc.) blowing into the seating area". "Blunt-force injuries, abrasions and small puncture wounds" were also sustained. It was noted that, on ground contact, the right hand propeller blades had initially "shattered into small pieces near the tips" and then "as they came closer to the ground, they sheared at the hub". It was accepted that "this is an expected