and normal mode of failure when composite blades contact hard objects" and noted the reinforced area on the fuselage in the propeller plane - the ice guard - is only intended to protect the fuselage from ice shed by the propeller blades in icing conditions and is not designed to prevent fuselage penetration of liberated propeller blades or parts of impact damaged ones. It was noted that the ELW had been close to the MLW and that the surface wind around the time of touchdown had been a light WNW breeze. It was also noted that the QRH carried on board the aircraft and derived from the AFM "makes no reference to any specific procedures in the event of a damaged tyre". The deflated tyre was found still mounted on the No 3 wheel. Examination of it led to the conclusion that it had "failed due to an impact break, most likely caused by running over a hard object at high speed during takeoff". It was found that "some airlines have found that the number 3 main tyre fails more frequently than other tyres on the aircraft type involved". It was surmised that aircraft such as this which do not use a passenger bridge "sometimes make hard right turns under power while departing from the gate and use the right-side brakes to assist in the manoeuvre" and that such hard braking during turns can create "an extreme shearing force on the tread area and […] sidewalls of the number 3 tyre in particular, because it functions as the pivot point for such a turn”. A full examination of all maintenance records for components relevant to the landing gear assemblies was carried out and "no anomalies were found". The main focus of the Investigation therefore became finding the reason for the main gear collapse during a benign touchdown when the gear leg had been indicating down and locked. It was found after extensive testing, including vibration testing not required for Type Certification and never previously conducted, that "an unexpectedly high rotational imbalance was created on the Number 3 tyre when it failed during takeoff". Then, "during landing, the failed Number 3 tyre was spun by contact with the ground and was maintained at a rotational speed that was the same as or very close to one of the natural frequencies of the MLG". This had caused the locking links to trigger […] the Proximity Sensor Electronic Unit (PSEU) to de-energise the Solenoid Sequence Valve (SSV) which led to the removal of system pressure from the extend port of the unlock actuator. In this condition, it was concluded that the excessive vibration had caused the locking links to overcome the force of the downlock springs and "unlock the (landing gear) stabiliser brace as a result of gear dynamics" which then led to the immediate collapse of the right MLG. It was noted that "if there are no specific requirements for dynamic vibration testing of components or completed airframes, there is a risk