descent to FL290 was made to clear RVSM airspace and to remain in VMC, because of initial crew uncertainty about the correct function of the weather radar. In respect of the need to leave RVSM airspace, the Investigation noted that the requirement was only that "an automatic altitude control system is required for operation in defined RVSM airspace" without any "explicit requirement that the system must be operational". However, it was considered that the interpretation of the provision – according to which the installed system should also be operational – was nevertheless reasonable. The abnormal engine vibration had continued to fluctuate on either side of the 3.8 Advisory Message 'trigger' for approximately 90 minutes until well into the descent to FL290 before ceasing completely during further descent to FL100. Communications after the onset of both problems were found to have proved somewhat problematic. Attempts to contact both Brisbane and Melbourne ATCC using HF were unsuccessful so an emergency message was sent via CPDLC to Melbourne ATC reading: “PAN PAN unable maintain altitude due to A/C perform, weather, turbulence” and “Aircraft’s loss of RVSM capability”. Melbourne ATCC replied via the same means about 20 minutes later and provided clearance for a diversion to Singapore. SATCOM was used to communicate with the Operator’s Maintenance Control Centre and Network Operations Centre to seek technical and operational assistance and advise of the intention to divert. The diversion took approximately 3 hours and was uneventful. The forecast chart provided to the crew pre-flight was found to have shown an area of isolated embedded cumulonimbus clouds up to FL 450 in the area where the incident occurred. Available evidence suggested that similar actual conditions had prevailed and it was considered that since the aircraft was reported to have been in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) at the time, the cause of the incorrect indications was that the two pitot probes on the left hand side of the aircraft had been intermittently obstructed by ice crystals despite their automatic electric heating functioning normally. The ambient temperature of the convective cloud through which the aircraft was found to have been flying was conducive to the occurrence of ice crystal icing, which was outside the CS23 Appendix C icing envelope applicable at the time the aircraft type certificate was granted. The cause of the excessive No.2 N1 vibration was found to have been water or ice crystals entering and passing through the spinner fairing and accreting as ice under the annulus fillers creating an ice out-of-balance situation and leading to a directly consequential increase in the observed N1 vibration indications until the ice melted. Subsequent inspection of the engine did not find any engine damage and attributed the ingress of water/ice crystals to the disbanding of a seal on the spinner nose cone. It was concluded that there had been no link between the unreliable airspeed indication and the increase in No. 2 engine N1 vibration except that the ice present or formed had occurred outside the prevailing CS23 icing