envelope. It was found that the weather radar had "functioned correctly" throughout the flight and that the failure of the crew to detect the probability of conditions conducive to ice crystal icing and avoid them was attributed to their incorrect use of manual tilt on the equipment. Otherwise, the only observation in respect of crew performance was that "CRM was practiced appropriately during the Incident, before and during the descent and the approach to the diversion airport". In respect of Cause, the Investigation formally stated as follows: The Unreliable Airspeed Indications resulted from "the intermittent obstruction of the aircraft left side pitot probes due to, most probably, accumulations of ice crystals".. The (entirely unrelated) No. 2 engine N1 high vibration resulted from "the ingress of water through a gap created after the Omega Seal disbanded (allowing) the water to freeze into ice, which then entered and passed through the spinner fairing and accreted under the annulus fillers".. Two Contributory Factors were identified in respect of the Unreliable Airspeed Indications as follows: An incorrect weather radar tilt setting was selected. Accordingly, there was no predictive detection of the cumulonimbus cloud that may have enabled the crew to take avoidance manoeuvres.. The ambient temperature and the aircraft altitude were outside the icing envelope parameters of the JAR specification and the manufacturer's design requirements for pitot probes.. Safety Action already taken as a result of the investigated event or noted as already under way as a result of the AF447 accident was noted as follows: EASA has now published a revised general specification for large aircraft certification in respect of the airframe risks from ice crystal and mixed phase icing in Amendment 16 to CS-25. A new ETSO C16 (pitot tubes) is due for approval and release in 2015 and the corresponding ETSO revision will follow at the next regular CS-ETSO update. The CS-25 amendment provides new icing test conditions for all flight probes which will be consistent with the new ETSO standards.. EASA is working with Airbus on the certification of new pitot probes for Airbus aircraft which will comply with a Special Condition which mandates function in the extended icing envelope CS-25 Amendment 16. EASA is currently engaged in formal certification of the new probes which will take "approximately one year". EASA has not yet determined the regulatory requirements which will apply in respect of the new probes, in particular the date from which they will be required and any retrofit requirement.. Rolls Royce is working on solutions to reduce the possibility of Spinner Omega Seal disband, and is considering other possible changes to ensure that the high vibration risk is effectively managed.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Etihad Airways should add to the existing initial and refresher type training syllabi appropriate material, such as that contained in the published manufacturer documentation regarding optimum techniques for use of the manual weather radar, in order to maximize the weather surveying and detection capabilities. (SR 41/2015). that the European Aviation