An Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS). Data from the DFDR and DAR were successfully downloaded and used to support the Investigation but the relevant recording on the 2 hour CVR was overwritten during the diversion. The flight was being operated with an augmented crew consisting of two Captains and two First Officers. The 39 year-old Operating Captain had 10,636 hours total flying experience including 1094 hours on type and 3050 hours command time on all types. The 24 year-old First Officer was found to have 520 hours total flying experience including 324 hours on type. The 44 year-old Relief Captain had 9159 hours total flying experience including 216 hours on type and 2135 hours command time on all types. The 31 year-old Relief First Officer was found to have 5759 hours total flying experience including 189 hours on type and 1141 hours command time on other types. It was established that the aircraft had been in the cruise at FL350 in "light to medium" turbulence when fluctuation in airspeed indications, which were clearly false, occurred over a period of almost two minutes on both the Captain's and the SBY ASIs. Those on the First Officer's ASI remained correct throughout and the other two indications returned to and remained normal after the two minute episode. However, the loss of valid data from the ADR modules of two out of the three available ADIRUs and the fact that the faulty indications on the two affected displays were not the same, resulted in the reversion of the flight control system to Alternate Law in accordance with system design principles. This reversion was initially very brief but then became permanent for the remainder of the flight because the discrepancy between ADR outputs had been 'latched' in the Flight Control Primary Computer (FCPC). FDR data showed that during the unreliable airspeed episode, the aircraft had climbed above its cleared level by 832 feet before recovery. A number of non-standard ways to try to get the AP re-engaged, which is not possible in Alternate Law, were also attempted by the crew. DFDR data indicated that the Ice Detection System had not detected any ice build-up during the event but the SAT was -42ยบC (ISA +13ยบ) which, it was found, was within the range found to have been characteristic of previous recorded occurrences of temporary pitot probe blockage during ice crystal icing encounters. Very soon after the period of unreliable airspeed indications, the crew noticed that the N1 vibration for the No. 2 engine had increased considerably. DFDR data showed that, after a brief rise from 0.2 units to 1.6 units then back to 0.3 units, the vibration level had then increased continuously to a maximum of 7.1 units, triggering the corresponding Advisory Message as it passed 3.8 units. A combination of the concern in respect of both the high level of vibration and the loss of the AP led to the decision to divert to Singapore. Initially a