Apart from seeking to understand accident and incident causation and thereby reduce accident prevalence, the Review recognised the importance of also examining ways of “mitigating the consequences of accidents in terms of protecting passengers and crew against injury or death”. The Review notes that the key issues in this area are not new and remain: It is further noted although there were 12 ditchings (as well as 17 “water impacts”) in the UK North Sea sector between 1976 and 2012, none of these resulted in fatalities. However, the nine water impacts in this period that were considered survivable led to 38 fatalities - 31 of which failed to escape from the helicopter and all but one of those who did escape then “perished in adverse sea conditions sea state 7 before rescue could be made. The 2013 water impact accident already mentioned also led to fatalities and serious injuries. The Review addresses “survivable water impacts” and notes that since the prevention of capsize is not practical, the only way forward is to mitigate the consequences for occupants. The way to achieve this is seen as: Whilst noting that the remit of EASA RMT.0120 concerns this, the Review states that “in view of the uncertain outcome of the EASA RMT and the timescales of any safety improvements that it does deliver, the CAA is of the view that consideration of further measures in advance of the EASA final decision is warranted to address the weaknesses identified” (the four key issues quoted above). It is also considered that such action would be complimentary to the RMT by ensuring that “life-saving improvements to the aircraft and/or survival equipment would be introduced sooner” which would help to reinforce the RMT proposals. To this effect, the Review states that UK CAA therefore intends to, from various specified dates: It also recommends that EASA RMT.0120 should result in mandatory safety and survival training for offshore passengers and that offshore operators should begin voluntarily addressing a series of proposals contained in the current draft NPA in respect of the likely output from the same RMT. Operational issues addressed include: A comprehensive review of all airworthiness issues is also included and places great importance on the continued room for improvement in the capability and application of the Helicopter Health and Usage Monitoring System (HUMS) which has already been of great value in mitigating the severity of the consequences of airworthiness failures. Airworthiness attention has particularly focused on issues affecting the principal types likely to remain in the offshore fleet long term, including those which will be used to complete the takeover of UK SAR service from the RAF and Royal Navy.