Helicopter Emergency Floatation System (EFS) is armed for all overwater departures and arrivals.. Require that on all offshore helicopter flights only passenger seats adjacent to pushout window emergency exits are occupied unless either a Category ‘A’ standard of Emergency Breathing System (EBS) specified in UK CAA in Development of a Technical Standard for Emergency Breathing Systems, CAP 1034 is worn by all passenger or a side-floating EFS is fitted to the helicopter.. Require that both passengers and crew on all offshore helicopter operations wear an EBS that meets the CAP 1034 Category ‘A’ performance specification unless the helicopter is equipped with side-floating EFS.. It also recommends that EASA RMT.0120 should result in mandatory safety and survival training for offshore passengers and that offshore operators should begin voluntarily addressing a series of proposals contained in the current draft NPA in respect of the likely output from the same RMT. Operational issues addressed include: Helideck licensing which the Review says is supported by operators and will be progressed with appropriate industry consultation.. The extension of the automatic cloud height and visibility sensors already almost universal on fixed platforms to mobile ones.. The lightning strike risk for which the UK Meteorological Office is continuing development work on a practicable forecasting method for the probability of triggered lighting strikes.. Pilot training including responding to the effects of automation dependency. A comprehensive review of all airworthiness issues is also included and places great importance on the continued room for improvement in the capability and application of the Helicopter Health and Usage Monitoring System (HUMS) which has already been of great value in mitigating the severity of the consequences of airworthiness failures. Airworthiness attention has particularly focused on issues affecting the principal types likely to remain in the offshore fleet long term, including those which will be used to complete the takeover of UK SAR service from the RAF and Royal Navy.