Apart from seeking to understand accident and incident causation and thereby reduce accident prevalence, the Review recognised the importance of also examining ways of “mitigating the consequences of accidents in terms of protecting passengers and crew against injury or death”. The Review notes that the key issues in this area are not new and remain: The sea-keeping performance required of ditched helicopters (i.e. sea conditions which the helicopter is designed and certificated to withstand) is inadequate for the wave climate in ‘hostile’ sea areas such as the North Sea leading to an excessive risk of capsize post ditching.. The certification requirements do not address water impacts, leading to inadequate post-crash operability of emergency flotation systems; helicopters almost always rapidly capsize and/or sink in the event of a water impact.. The time required to escape from a flooded and usually inverted helicopter cabin will exceed the ability of at least some of the occupants to hold their breath.. There are no regulatory restrictions on operations over sea conditions where a reasonable prospect of safe rescue cannot be assured.. It is further noted although there were 12 ditchings (as well as 17 “water impacts”) in the UK North Sea sector between 1976 and 2012, none of these resulted in fatalities. However, the nine water impacts in this period that were considered survivable led to 38 fatalities - 31 of which failed to escape from the helicopter and all but one of those who did escape then “perished in adverse sea conditions sea state 7 before rescue could be made. The 2013 water impact accident already mentioned also led to fatalities and serious injuries. The Review addresses “survivable water impacts” and notes that since the prevention of capsize is not practical, the only way forward is to mitigate the consequences for occupants. The way to achieve this is seen as: Preventing sinking. Addressing the current mismatch between escape time and breath hold time. Reducing escape time. Ensuring that passengers survive following egress. Whilst noting that the remit of EASA RMT.0120 concerns this, the Review states that “in view of the uncertain outcome of the EASA RMT and the timescales of any safety improvements that it does deliver, the CAA is of the view that consideration of further measures in advance of the EASA final decision is warranted to address the weaknesses identified” (the four key issues quoted above). It is also considered that such action would be complimentary to the RMT by ensuring that “life-saving improvements to the aircraft and/or survival equipment would be introduced sooner” which would help to reinforce the RMT proposals. To this effect, the Review states that UK CAA therefore intends to, from various specified dates: Prohibit offshore flights when the sea conditions at the intended offshore location which the helicopter is operating to or from exceed the certificated ditching performance of the helicopter (it is noted that this measure will effectively supersede an intended concurrent prohibition on operations above sea state 6 at offshore helidecks. Require that the