both practical limits to maximum wing span for ground manoeuvring and structural issues which mean that eventually, the weight penalty to adequately strengthen a long thin wing becomes excessive. The fact that aircraft carry most of their fuel in the wings is also a factor in wing design. Typical transport aircraft aspect ratios range between 6:1 and 10:1. Other ways to reduce induced drag and tip vortex strength in a wing design are also based upon reducing the quantity air movement upwards at the wing tip by aiming to generate relatively more of the lift away from tips. Wing taper towards the tip assists this as does wing twist. The Boeing 767 is a example of a twisted wing. The inner wing is set at a higher Angle of Attack (AOA) than the outer wing and thus generates proportionately more lift whereas the tip, at a very small Angle of Attack generates very little. Winglets (sharklets) have also become popular, both the usual up-turned versions and the older Airbus A320 series two-way ‘wingtip fence’ versions. Well designed winglets can prevent about 20% of the airflow spillage at the tip - and therefore 20% of the induced drag. Induced drag and its wing tip vortices are a direct consequence of the creation of lift by the wing. Since the Coefficient of Lift is large when the Angle of Attack is large, induced drag is inversely proportional to the square of the speed whereas all other drag is directly proportional to the square of the speed. The effect of this is that induced drag is relatively unimportant at high speed in the cruise and descent where it probably represents less than 10% of total drag. In the climb, it is more important representing at least 20% of total drag. At slow speeds just after take off and in the initial climb, it is of maximum importance and may produce as much as 70% of total drag. Finally, when looking at the potential strength of wing tip vortices, all this theory on induced drag must be moderated by the effect of aircraft weight. Induced drag will always increase with aircraft weight.