Induced Drag is an inevitable consequence of lift and is produced by the passage of an aerofoil (e.g. wing or tailplane) through the air. Air flowing over the top of a wing tends to flow inwards because the decreased pressure over the top surface is less than the pressure outside the wing tip. Below the wing, the air flows outwards because the pressure below the wing is greater than that outside the wing tip. The direct consequence of this, as far as the wing tips are concerned, is that there is a continual spilling of air upwards around the wing tip a phenomenon called ‘tip effect’ or ‘end effect’. One way to appreciate why a high aspect ratio for a wing is better than a low one is that with a high aspect ratio, the proportion of air which moves in this way is reduced and therefore more of it generates lift. For the wing more generally, the streams of air from above and below the wing are flowing at an angle to each other as they meet along the trailing edge of the wing. They combine to form vortices which, when viewed from the rear, rotate clockwise from the left wing and counter clockwise from the right. The tendency is for these vortices to move outwards towards the wing tip joining together as they do so. By the time the wing tip is reached, one large wig tip vortex has formed and is shed. Most of these vortices are of course completely invisible but, in very humid air, the central core of a vortex may become visible because the air pressure within its centre has reduced - and has therefore cooled - sufficiently for condensation to occur. A higher wing loading in a turn will also increase the strength - and the degree of reduced pressure - so that visible vortex cores are even more likely during turns. If close up to these vortices, they can also sometimes be audible! Most of the air flowing off the top of a wing - ‘downwash’ - continues more or less horizontally towards the empennage because it is balanced by a corresponding upwash in front of the wing leading edge. In contrast, the upwards air movement which leads to vortex ‘consolidation’ at the tip is just outside the tip whereas the corresponding downward movement is just at the extremity of the wingspan so that the net direction of airflow past the wing is downwards. The lift created by the wing - which is by definition at right angles to the airflow, is therefore inclined slightly backwards and thus ‘contributes’ drag - induced drag. Although there must always be at least some induced drag because wings have a finite thickness, design attempts wherever possible to reduce this flow. A required wing area can be achieved using different wing span-to-chord ratios (aspect ratios). The larger the wing aspect ratio, the less air disturbance is created at the tip. However, for most aircraft, there are