International aviation organisations dedicate considerable resources and efforts to collect, analyse and communicate safety critical information to the global aviation community. In accordance with Annex 13, ICAO collects data on aircraft accidents involving aircraft with a maximum take-of mass (MTOW) of 2250 kg. In addition, information on serious incidents involving aircraft with MTOW of 5,700kg is also collected. This reporting system is known worldwide as ICAO Accident/Incident Data Reporting (ADREP). States report data in a predetermined, coded format. Upon reception of a report, the information is verified and electronically stored, enriching this databank of worldwide safety occurrences. To pool the safety occurrence information in Europe and overcome the problems rooted in incompatible data collection and data storage formats, the European Union introduced harmonised safety occurrence reporting requirements and developed the ECCAIRS database (European Co-ordination Centre for Accident and Incident Reporting Systems). It offers standard and flexible accident and incident data collection, representation, exchange and analysis tools. The database is compatible with ICAO ICAO ADREP system and supports the presentation of information in a variety of formats. Several non-European states have decided to implement ECCAIRS to take advantage of the common classification taxonomies. In 2007 European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) started collecting accident data for aircraft operated in Europe, with a MTOW below 2,250kg. The legal bases for the collection and dissemination of safety occurrence related information is ensured by the following legislations: In the United States, MOR regulations are included in National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Part 830 — Notification and Reporting of Aircraft Accidents or Incidents and Overdue Aircraft, and Preservation of Aircraft Wreckage, Mail, Cargo, and Records. As far as aviation is concerned, this regulation, in part, contains rules perstaining to "Initial notification and later reporting of aircraft incidents and accidents and certain other occurrences in the operation of aircraft, wherever they occur, when they involve civil aircraft of the United States; when they involve certain public aircraft, as specified in this part, wherever they occur; and when they involve foreign civil aircraft where the events occur in the United States, its territories, or its possessions." The regulation includes numerous MOR-relevant definitions for such terms as accident, fatal injury, incident, operator, etc., and it details when NTSB must be notified. The Board must be notified when an aircraft accident or any of the following listed serious incidents occur: In Canada, MOR is governed by a regulation titled: Mandatory Reporting: Aviation Occurrences,