override it. The average deceleration rate from for the complete landing roll was recorded as about 0.179 g and reverse thrust, normally reduced around 60 knots was reduced to idle at a ground speed of about 20 knots. An engineering inspection after the flight found no evidence of abnormal tyre wear or damage indicative of reverted rubber aquaplaning with the tyre pressures also normal and the aircraft maintenance records showing no pre-existing defects with the brake system. This inspection also found that the engines and fuselage were covered in dirty water which would be expected when reverse thrust had been used at high power settings on a wet runway. Although a review of weather radar images showed that there had been a period of “light to moderate” rain in the Christchurch area for almost 40 minutes ending 7 minutes before the landing under investigation, the meteorological authorities stated that only a small amount of rain had been recorded and “they considered it unlikely that this resulted in standing water on the runway”. The FDR data were used by Boeing to run simulations which attempted to characterise the amount of brake pressure applied and the runway conditions. Subject to the assumptions made about the condition of the pavement and the commanded brake pressure, results indicated that: ‘Good’ braking action was achieved until the aircraft crossed the runway intersection.. Between the intersection and the end of the runway, braking action significantly reduced.. Deceleration throughout the landing roll was initially consistent with the characteristics of a wet runway and then, after crossing the runway intersection, consistent with a flooded runway.. Boeing further opined that since the runway was not grooved, if standing water was present between the intersection and runway end, braking action would have been (further) reduced. The Investigation noted and discussed the 2005 Boeing 737 overrun at Chicago Midway and the 2015 FAA Safety Alert For Operators (SAFO) 15009 ‘Turbojet braking performance on wet runways’ which warned that the 15% safety margin applied to wet runway performance data “may not provide a safe stopping margin under all conditions”. This subject was considered by the Investigation in considerable detail, in particular but not only in respect of how Virgin Australia flight crew documentation presented landing performance issues. The considerable work on runway surface conditions and braking action reports was also reviewed in some detail including the recommended used of the RCAM matrix produced by the FAA’s TALPA ARC. Some concern was expressed at the failure of the Operator to ensure that the flight following function described in their “Flight Dispatch Policy Manual” had not resulted in the crew being passed the amended Christchurch TAF which had been issued whilst the aircraft was in the cruise and which indicated that the expected rain was likely to have begun by the time they arrived. The Operator reported having assessed that this change “was not operationally critical” and the information was therefore not passed to the crew. Had this been done, it would have been