according to Virgin Atlantic procedures) was possible at a landing weight of up to 68.2 tonnes with flap 40 set and that their 60.1 tonne ELW was well within it. The crew were aware at this time that a wet runway would have put their ELW about 1 tonne over the limit. It was decided that autobrake setting ‘3’ rather than ‘MAX’ was appropriate. Another new ATIS was issued just 7 minutes after the previous one and ATC advised the surface wind was easing - currently 240° at 5 knots – and that the rain had now stopped. The fact that the runway was still being notified as wet, which the crew had not been aware of, was not mentioned. The aircraft was cleared for a visual approach with the surface wind advised as light and variable and subsequently, just before a landing clearance was issued, as calm. The Captain reported that on final approach, he had assessed the visible runway surface as being damp rather than wet on the basis that it did not appear reflective. Immediately after touchdown within the TDZ, full reverse thrust was applied and the speedbrakes deployed. As the aircraft passed the runway 02/20 and 11/29 intersection, the First Officer stated that he had no longer felt the sensation of being restrained against the seat belt and shoulder harness and the aircraft had ceased to continue decelerating as expected and instead had felt like it was ‘sliding’. In response, he had applied constant ‘hard’ (but not full) manual braking, overriding the autobrake. The Captain stated that there had been “a lot more surface water on that section of the runway” than that encountered initially. Both pilots reported that they were aware of the antiskid operating. Reverse thrust was retained to assist the reduced braking effect and the Captain stated that when reverse thrust was removed near to the end of the runway, “there was enough surface water on the runway to create a wall of spray”. One of the cabin crew also reported that they had been unable to see outside the aircraft during the landing roll because of the “large amount of water spray”. The aircraft came ‘slowly sliding’ to a stop about 5 metres from the runway end lights and was subsequently taxied to the terminal. About 3 minutes after the landing, a new ATIS notified the active runway as 02 and its surface condition as ‘damp’ rather than the ‘wet’ as previously notified for runway 29. FDR data showed that the approach had been stable with a 5 knot tailwind component just prior to touchdown at 138 KCAS, three knots above the applicable VREF40. The autobrake 3 target deceleration rate of 0.224 g was initially achieved and then exceeded to a maximum of 0.29 g. At around 80 knots, soon after crossing the runway intersection, autobraking was replaced by manual braking during which deceleration rate had reduced below the autobrake 3 target despite the application of more than autobrake 3 pressure to