received during a period of low workload and would have meant more time to consider the implications and may also have “acted as a primer” for the intermittent information on runway surface conditions subsequently provided by Christchurch ATC. The possibility that dynamic aquaplaning had occurred was considered and it was noted that the depth of water required to support dynamic aquaplaning can be as low as 2.54 mm for a well-worn tyre, which was the general condition of the aircraft main gear tyres. However, the minimum speeds for this to occur were above those computed for the aircraft after it had crossed the runway intersection. It was noted that the possibility of viscous aquaplaning having occurred was difficult to determine but that it was generally the most likely cause of a loss of braking action on damp or wet runways, especially those with a smooth surface texture and that water only 0.254 mm deep can significantly reduce the coefficient of friction at any tyre speed. In reviewing all the assembled evidence and analysis, it was concluded that “if a higher level of (auto)braking had been used (‘MAX’ rather than ‘3’), the aircraft would have initially decelerated at a greater rate (and) would have then entered the standing water (encountered) at a slower speed and likely stopped sooner”. It was also noted that whilst the Landing Performance Manual had indicated that runway 29 could not be used for the landing if wet, (contradictory) information in the QRH had indicated that the same runway with ‘good’ reported braking action could be used. It was considered that as the actual landing distance was only marginally less than the runway 29 LDA, the fact that braking action after the intersection was less than ‘good’ meant that the avoidance of an overrun could be attributed to a combination of greater than the target autobrake ‘3’ deceleration rate at first and then the crew's application of hard manual braking and retention of reverse thrust. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation were as follows: There were seven Contributing Factors, three of which were classified as ‘Safety Issues’: Due to the crew experiencing increased workload, the crew misperceived critical landing information, which resulted in the aircraft’s landing performance being determined based on a damp (dry) runway rather than a wet runway.. The runway surface conditions combined with the autobrake selection resulted in the aircraft exceeding the landing performance limitations for runway 29 for both the reported and actual wind conditions.. Using the operator's Airport Analysis Manual to establish that the aircraft could land safely on runway 29 relied on the crew's judgement to determine the braking level required. While that judgement was consistent with the flight crew training manual, the Quick Reference Handbook indicated that a higher braking level than chosen was needed to meet the landing distance safety margin requirements.. It was very likely that the amount of water on the later part of runway 29 resulted in less than 'good' braking action. Along with the possibility