An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Data relevant to the Investigation was obtained from the aircraft FDR and analysed by both the ATSB and Boeing. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 8912 flying hours which included 4987 hours on type and that the First Officer, who had been acting as PF for the investigated flight had a total of 8229 flying hours which included 2786 hours on type. The Captain had been operating from Christchurch for 7 years and the First Officer had been operating from there for 5 years. Neither was affected by fatigue. It was established that prior to departure from Sydney, the crew were aware of the NOTAM which advised that the main runway at Christchurch, runway 02/20, would not be available for landing in the 20 direction. They also noted that no significant weather was forecast for their expected arrival time although rain was expected after it. Forty minutes prior to landing, the Captain obtained the Christchurch weather which was as expected from the forecast and favoured an approach to runway 02, which had an LDA of 1920 metres. Ten minutes later, whilst still at FL390, Christchurch Area ATC were contacted and they advised that the destination weather had changed and that the runway for landing would now be 29, which unlike 02 was not grooved and had an LDA of only 1703 metres. It was suggested that the crew might wish to listen to this new ATIS due to the significant changes and the new surface wind was given but no mention was made of the rain now falling and the Captain did not subsequently have time to listen to the ATIS. Whilst preparing for the revised arrival, weather was observed on arrival route ahead and deviations around it were agreed with ATC. The crew subsequently stated that this increased workload had required the Captain as PM to concentrate on FMS inputs and assessing the landing performance on the shorter runway 29 and the First Officer to manage the weather deviation and “focus on the implications of landing on a shorter runway” than had been expected. The crew stated that they had considered the possibility of taking up a hold to give more time to plan the new approach but had not then considered this was necessary. Shortly after beginning descent to FL160 as cleared, ATC advised that the landing runway was now wet in light rain and a new ATIS had been issued. The crew did not recognise that this meant that rainfall intensity had reduced since they were unaware of the “rain” reported on the previous ATIS and although they recollected hearing of the light rain on this latest ATIS, they did not listen to it directly because ATC had passed all the relevant details from it. The Captain consulted the on board Airport Analysis Manual and determined that a 29 landing on a damp runway (which was equivalent to a dry one