of viscous aquaplaning and despite the crew applying hard braking, this water resulted in a reduced braking capability.. Several months prior to the incident, Virgin Australia Airlines/Virgin Australia International changed their policy on calculating landing performance for damp runways from referencing a wet runway to a dry runway. [Safety Issue]. There was no regulatory direction from the Civil Aviation Safety Authority on how a damp runway was to be considered for aircraft landing performance. [Safety Issue]. Virgin Australia Airlines/Virgin Australia International did not have a policy requiring crews to independently cross-check environmental information and landing performance calculations in-flight, removing an opportunity to detect crew errors. [Safety Issue]. Five ‘Other Factors that increased risk’, one of which was classified as a Safety Issue, were also identified: The Operator provided guidance on landing performance through an uncontrolled mechanism, which did not provide assurance that crews had read, understood and applied the critical information contained within that guidance.. The flight following department did not highlight to the crew the changing weather conditions which had the effect of minimising their landing options for Christchurch.. The subjective nature of assessing runway surface conditions and braking action increases the risk of incorrect landing performance determination.. Civil Aviation Order 20.7.1B stipulated that a 1.15 (15 per cent) safety margin was to be applied to the actual landing distance for jet-engine aircraft with a maximum takeoff weight greater than 5,700 kg. This safety margin may be inadequate under certain runway conditions, which increases the risk of a runway excursion. The corresponding guidance in Civil Aviation Advisory Publication 235-5(0) had not been updated to account for this. [Safety Issue]. The inherent complexity of re-calculating landing performance data in-flight using the operator’s Quick Reference Handbook increases the risk of errors, especially during times of elevated crew workload.. Finally, there were three ‘Other Findings’: The Operator's guidance was inconsistent with its policy for determining in-flight landing performance.. Initial aircraft autobraking above the required deceleration rate, combined with the crew’s application of hard manual braking and delayed stowage of reverse thrust, likely reduced the risk of a runway excursion.. The main landing gear brake pressure recording switch was faulty, therefore, the amount of brake pressure applied during landing was not recorded by the flight data recorder.. The Final Report was released on 18 September 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.