Fires on board aircraft which occur within the aircraft cabin or flight deck - or are potentially directly accessible from them - arise in one of three ways: Fires that involve energized electrical equipment - in aircraft cabins typically IFE (in flight entertainment) systems in the passenger cabin, electrical equipment in the galley or avionics equipment in the flight deck or under floor avionics bay, or personal electronic devices (PEDs) carried by passengers.. Fires in ordinary combustibles such as cloth, paper, rubber, and many plastics - in aircraft cabins typically in furnishings. Fires in flammable liquids, oils, greases, tars, oil-base paints, lacquers, and flammable gases - in aircraft cabins typically galley oven fires. Portable extinguishers present a special challenge since they must be capable of extinguishing a range of fire types - solid materials such as cabin fixtures and furnishings, flammable liquids and electrical fires. Halon 1211 extinguishers have entirely replaced the previous combination of two different types of portable extinguisher - carbon dioxide and water gycol - on new-build aircraft and no other single extinguisher-type has yet been identified as a satisfactory alternative to it. NOTE: Crews must be aware that the toxicity of the Halon gases, especially the combination which makes up Halon 1211, is such that use in confined spaces requires care to minimize any inhalation of the discharged gases. Where a portable Halon extinguisher is used by cabin crew, it is usually recommended to consider donning a smoke hood before discharge to eliminate this risk, but for flight crew use on the flight deck, this will not be an option and risk awareness is the only defence. Where the dual fit of extinguisher is encountered on older aircraft, it is essential that Water Glycol extinguishers are used on solid material fires and Carbon Dioxide extinguishers on liquid or electrical equipment fires. The minimum dispatch requirement for aircraft portable fire extinguishers is determined by the capacity of the aircraft cabin and is specified in the Aircraft MEL. Relevant authorities (e.g. the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) in the EU, FAA in the US) specify the requirements for hand held fire extinguishers in terms of: Minimum number of hand held fire extinguishers to be carried on board. This depends on the size of the aircraft, the number of passenger seats, the number and type of cargo compartments, etc.. Hand held fire extinguisher distribution within the aircraft (e.g. number of extinguishers in the cockpit, cabin, cargo compartments, etc.).. Mounting and marking (e.g. there should be a special sign in case the fire extinguisher is not clearly visible).. The need for regulatory approval and acceptable means of compliance.. Restrictions regarding the extinguishing agents used (e.g. cut-off and end dates for Halon-based extinguishers).. Extinguishing agent quantity requirements (e.g. minimum amount of agent per extinguisher).. Health considerations (e.g. toxic gas hazard minimization)..