mounted on short poles. The take-off run took the aircraft over this unmarked paved surface - which was at a 30ยบ slant to the runway - for approximately 248 metres before it ran onto the grassed soft ground which lay beyond. Once he realised what had happened, the commander, who was PF rejected the take-off. Once the aircraft had stopped, the crew shut down the engines and all occupants evacuated the aircraft. There was no communication with ATC and the controller was initially unsure what had happened as "he could see only the top of the fuselage and tail above the layer of fog". However when he saw that all the aircraft lights had been extinguished, he had activated the crash alarm and two minutes later the airport emergency plan was activated when the AFS reached the aircraft and declared an aircraft accident. It was found that on leaving the paved surface, all the aircraft wheels had immediately sunk approximately 0.25 metres into the ground and there were indications that the aircraft had begun to oscillate about the main landing gear. After travelling for 120 metres across the grass, the nose landing gear and the radome had detached and the aircraft had eventually come to a stop in line with the PAPI after a take-off run of slightly over 400 metres. After passing the displaced threshold lights, beyond which the white edge lights were on poles located in the grass, the left main wheels had damaged two of these lights. When the nose landing gear separated from the aircraft, it was found that it had struck the lower fuselage approximately 0.3 metres aft of its bay and torn a 6.5 metres long hole in the skin. A number of frames in this area were damaged, all aerials mounted on the forward lower fuselage were found to have been detached, and there was a crease and rupture in the skin over the top of the forward fuselage as annotated in the first illustration above. It was discovered that neither the aerodrome chart published in the AIP nor the proprietary equivalent available to the crew on their iPads effectively depicted the detail of the area where taxiways, including the one used by the accident aircraft, intersected with the beginning of runway 03. The AIP was found to contain the following off-chart text caution but this information was not available to the crew: The width at both ends of Runway 03/21, is twice that delineated by the associated edge lights due to extra pavement at one side. Since runway centre-line lighting is not installed, pilots should ensure that they are correctly lined up, especially if take-off is at night or when the runway is contaminated or in low visibility. The requirements for reporting visibility and related phenomena in UK METARS were reviewed. It was noted they required that 'fog patches' should be reported when "fog, 2 metres or more deep, is present on the aerodrome in irregularly distributed patches" and that if visibility