of the taxiways. Pilots had previously reported difficulty near the runway 03 threshold because of a lack of taxiway lighting.. There was an additional paved area adjacent to the runway.. There was no runway centreline lighting and the runway edge lights before the displaced threshold were recessed.. Reduced visibility had prevailed.. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that: "It appeared that the information available to the crew caused them to develop an incorrect expectation of their route to the runway. Both crew members believed that the runway had centreline lighting and, when the first right turn almost lined the aircraft up with some lights, their incorrect expectation was reinforced and they believed that the aircraft was lined up correctly. Cues to the contrary, such as runway edge lights on the other side of the runway, or the fact that the first three lights ahead of the aircraft were red (indicating that they were edge lights before the displaced threshold), did not appear to have been strong enough to make the crew realise that they had lost situational awareness." It was also concluded in the particular respect of runway lighting that: “The dominant common factor between this accident and other misaligned takeoffs is that a visually compelling line of edge lights was visible to the crew and was assumed to be centreline lighting. There is nothing inherent in an individual edge light that distinguishes it from a centreline light when viewed along the axis of the bi-directional element. It is the pattern of edge lights, and the relationship of this pattern to the pattern of other lights and to other visual cues, which identifies them as edge lights. If this complex relationship becomes disrupted or misinterpreted, perhaps for the reasons highlighted in the ATSB report, pilots can lose situational awareness. If individual edge lights could be identified as such directly, rather than through a process of interpretation, a crew would notice their error more easily should they line up for takeoff incorrectly." Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated accident was noted as having included the following: Biggin Hill Airport installed reflective studs to delineate the taxiways and runway access points around the Runway 03 threshold as a temporary measure ahead of more permanent improvements to taxiway lighting. This action was intended to reduce the risk that crews following the taxiway around the first right turn after J1 would proceed straight ahead, as the aircraft in this accident did.. The Chart Supplier involved added the cautionary information noted during the Investigation to the Biggin Hill AIP entry in its UK Chart Change Notices, pending a corresponding revision of its Biggin Hill Airport Diagram Chart.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the International Civil Aviation Organisation initiate the process to develop within Annex 14 Volume 1, ‘Aerodrome Design and Operations’, a standard for runway edge lights that would allow pilots to identify them specifically, without reference to other lights or other airfield