An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The aircraft was fitted with a 30 minute CVR and a 25-hour FDR but the tape based CVR was found to have an inoperative mechanism drive motor and yielded no data relevant to the accident. The FDR, which was not required to be fitted to the aircraft, was found to record only basic parameters and the data were not of sufficient quality to be useful to the investigation. It was noted that the only FDR-related scheduled maintenance was in respect of the ULB which was attached to it. The built-in GPS receivers installed in two of the three iPads recovered from the aircraft facilitated a re-construction of the ground track of the aircraft during the attempted take-off using data from their NVM. Whilst the accuracy of the GPS position is "less effective when used within an aircraft" and the accuracy of the recorded tracks was not known, "the two recordings were largely consistent with each other". The recorded ground speed was found to have reached a maximum of about 70 knots during the take-off attempt and the ground track (see the illustration below) was found to be along the right-hand edge of the runway terminating at a position consistent with the final stopping position of the aircraft. It was noted that the 36 year old aircraft commander had 4120 hours total flying experience of which 3650 hours were on the accident aircraft type. It was established that having been advised of the METAR issued 10 minutes prior to the attempted take-off which included wind calm, visibility in excess of 10 km with fog patches and a temperature/dew point split of 1ยบ C, the crew had been cleared to taxi to holding point J1 for a runway 03 departure and had read it back correctly. The controller had then advised that "we are giving low level fog patches on the airfield, general visibility in excess of 10 km but visibility not measured in the fog patches; it seems to be very low, very thin fog from the zero three threshold to approximately half way down the runway then it looks completely clear" and this was also acknowledged. Having reached the clearance limit and stopped, the aircraft was then cleared for take-off. On-site and recorded evidence showed that when the aircraft had then been taxied towards the runway from J1, it had failed to follow the taxiway centreline and its continuation as a lead-on line to the marked but unlit runway centreline. Instead, it had been lined up with the left main wheels in line with the runway edge lights (see the diagram below). These edge lights were positioned 3 metres to the right of the runway edge and located in a disused paved surface area and because this part of the runway was prior to the displaced landing threshold, they were red. In addition, with pavement to their right not available for aircraft use, they were embedded in the surface rather than