in any direction other than that on which the overall meteorological visibility report is based is less than 50% of that visibility, then this reduced visibility must also be reported. The regulatory context for the accident flight was examined and FAR Part 91 was found to have been applicable to the operation of the aircraft. This requires that when such an aircraft is operated outside the USA, such operations "must comply with the regulations relating to the flight and maneuver of aircraft there in force". The applicable UK regulations were found to state that an aircraft "must not take off when the relevant runway visual range is less than 150 metres otherwise than under and in accordance with the terms of an approval to do so granted in accordance with the law of the country in which it is registered". Additional UK regulations (UK CAP 168 Chapter 6) were also noted to prohibit any take-off from a runway without centreline lights when the RVR is below 400 metres. It was noted that there were no procedures for the measurement of RVR in respect of the departure end of runway 03 at Biggin Hill. UK requirements for taxiway edge marking, (UK CAP 168 Chapter 7) where a contiguous paved surface not available for use was present, were found to require a specified marking (see the diagram below) which was not present at either of the locations where it should have been - the eastern side of the ORP at the beginning of Runway 03 where part of it is used as taxiway 'C', and the boundary between the southern end of the same ORP and taxiway 'J'. The Investigation considered the issues surrounding the perception of runway lighting in conditions of poor visibility at some length and noted that "lighting standards are largely based on the tungsten light bulb technology that was prevalent at the time the standards were promulgated", whereas "LED lighting technology has since improved the capability of lights to hold colour over varying power ranges and over time and has (also) improved directional control of lighting”. A number of previous similar events which had been independently investigated was noted including: an ATR 72 at Dresden in 2002. an Airbus A319 at Las Vegas in 2006. an Embraer E190 at Oslo in 2010. The content of the 2010 Australian Transportation Safety Board (ATSB) Report 'Factors influencing misaligned take-off occurrences at night' was noted by the Investigation as applicable to many of the issues in the investigated event and other similar ones - in particular the identification in this report of issues related to lighting, surface marking and the presence of areas of additional but unavailable pavement peripheral to runway and taxiway lateral limits. It was noted that five of the factors identified in the ATSB Report as being present in misaligned take-offs were applicable in the investigated event: It was dark.. It was potentially a confusing taxiway environment given that the aerodrome chart did not reflect the actual layout