the ground track illustration below. Although there were no injuries to those on board, six passengers asked for medical assistance “due to disturbance and fear”. As a result of the landing gear sinking into “mud and wet grass” following the excursion, the left engine was subsequently found to have sustained enough damage - to the nacelle, thrust reverser, fan and inlet cowls and bleed air cooler - to require its replacement. Both main landing gear wheel assemblies and brake units were also replaced. The aircraft ground track during the landing roll. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A number of observations were made in respect of the conduct of the approach and landing: The non precision approach to runway 35, although requiring less track miles than positioning for and completing an ILS approach to runway 17, involved accepting a significant tailwind approach onto a wet runway, albeit circumstances which were within the required landing performance criteria. It was noted that the Captain’s decision to use runway 35 had not been preceded by any assessment of the relative risk represented by these two alternatives.. Although a constant tailwind component was present throughout the approach, it was found from the CVR data that there had been no discussion of this on the flight deck.. The required landing distance on the Pristina runway taken from the operator’s 737-800 QRH whether dry or ‘wet but with good braking action’ (the latter was the condition measured shortly after the excursion) was 2,065 metres. It was raining prior to and during the landing.. Despite both pilots being aware that they were above the procedure vertical profile, the Captain did not take the opportunity to discontinue the unstabilised approach at or prior to the MAPt or when the excessive rate of descent below the MDA led to an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ caution being annunciated.. CVR evidence indicated that CRM during the approach had been poor overall as well as not in accordance with the aircraft operator’s SOPs with the Captain’s conduct of the approach not eliciting any comment or adequate situational awareness prompting from the low experience First Officer in the presence of what appeared to be a steep authority gradient.. Applicable aircraft operator SOPs explicitly and independently required that a “long flare”, as occured in this event, should be avoided.. The maximum speed at which the aircraft type was supposed to taxi off the runway other than when using an RET was 30 knots.. The THY Turkish Airlines’ OM Part ‘A’ was found to have no clear guidance on the conduct of a go around if a touchdown cannot be made within the “first 1000 feet of the runway” as required.. The Cause of this Serious Incident was formally recorded as the aircraft crossing the runway threshold above the standard crossing height combined with a long flare and a late touchdown beyond the touchdown zone. Two Contributory Factors were identified as: Crew Resource Management was not performed according to the aircraft operators SOP.. The flight crew didn´t