A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Kosovo Aeronautical Accident and Incident Investigation Commission (AAIIC). Relevant data from both the SSFDR and the SSCVR were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 48 year-old Captain, who was PF for the flight, had a total of 11,099 flying hours of which 8,090 hours were on type and the 30 year-old First Officer had a total of 615 flying hours of which 335 hours were on type. The flight crew were operating the first flight of their duty. It was found that there had been no proper approach briefing from the Captain. It was established that Pristina Radar had provided radar vectors to enable the flight to establish on the VOR/DME P offset approach to runway 35. This requires a 3.47° nominal descent angle if flown as a CDA and the track is offset by 8° until approximately 0.5 nm prior to the runway threshold. The approach was commenced with the AP engaged and with VS mode selected. After transfer to TWR, the landing clearance given was accompanied by a wind check of 150°/6 knots with advice that the 2,501 metre-long landing runway was wet. The ELW was 64,515 kg which meant that the applicable VREF was 141KIAS with landing flap 40° and autobrake 3 selected. As the aircraft passed 1000 feet aal, the FDR recorded the rate of descent was 1,900 fpm and the flight path angle was 5.5°. Nearing the MDA with the AP still engaged, the VS mode changed to ALT ACQ and the vertical speed began to reduce. The AP was disconnected at a recorded 815 feet aal and the rate of descent increased in order to regain the procedure vertical profile. This increased rate of descent was still present as the aircraft reached 180 feet agl which led to a two second EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ activation. This was followed by a significant reduction in both vertical speed and pitch attitude. The runway 35 threshold was subsequently crossed at 80 feet agl and the flare was initiated at 20 feet agl but it was still a further five seconds before touchdown followed at VREF + 4 knots approximately 1,030 metres beyond the runway threshold leaving approximately 1,500 metres of runway ahead. Autobrake was activated immediately and reverse thrust was selected without delay, although after about 600 metres, manual braking was commenced. During the ground roll, both pilots reported “noticing that the aircraft did not decelerate as much as expected” and as the end of the runway got nearer, the Captain attempted, despite a ground speed of around 50 knots, to begin the left turn onto taxiway ‘C’, the final exit point at the end of the runway but this resulted in the aircraft crossing the taxiway near its junction with the runway and continuing onto the adjacent grass. Reverse thrust was cancelled as the aircraft left the runway and it subsequently came to a stop approximately 36 metres to the left of the runway - see