The FCCs at the centre of an FCS are programmed with control laws that govern the feedback control system. Control laws are commonly named after the primary feedback parameter as ‘xxx feedback’ or ‘xxx command’. Typical feedbacks are: ‘G command’ which is a desirable capability at high speeds, means that for a particular amount of control column force, you get (available energy permitting) the same ‘g’ regardless of prevailing airspeed. Similarly, in a pitch-rate command system, you get the same amount of pitch rate for a given control column force regardless of prevailing airspeed. To balance the need to communicate pilot commands rapidly whilst at the same time maintaining a context for them as a basis for precision over time, the FCC provides a direct path to the elevator via the ‘proportional line’ or ‘feed forward gain’ but also routes the same command through a parallel circuit ‘integrator’ which produces a control surface command until the feedback signal is equal to the pilot's original command signal. Engineers must ‘tune’ the integrator gain setting so as to prevent excessive lag. Pure integrator control, or too much integrator gain ‘K’ would cause excessive lag in aircraft response which is why the proportional line is used as well. This arrangement, called "proportional plus integral" control, is found in most fly-by-wire designs, including those of both Boeing and Airbus. If undue lag exists in an FCS, causing delay in changing direction from, say, nose-up to nose-down, the effect would be analogous to the human performance lag well known as pilot-induced oscillation or PIO. An aircraft controlled in pitch by pitch-rate command or g command gives you attitude hold with controls free, similar to the control wheel steering (CWS) feature of an Autopilot. If you change pitch attitude and release control pressure at the desired attitude, the system holds that new attitude because the FCS reacts to bring pitch rate to zero. The aircraft should fly easily with only moderate control forces required and precise attitude control. A consequential benefit of either pitch-rate or g feedback is auto trim in that you can change speed without needing to re-trim for level flight. The same applies to thrust or configuration changes. Auto trim provides apparent neutral-speed stability. Even though positive speed stability was a generally accepted design requirement for conventionally controlled aircraft, the lack of it seems to be acceptable to those flying FBW aircraft with this effect un-moderated. Some FBW types, though, do retain conventional trim "feel". A common control law which blends g and pitch-rate feedback is called C* (verbalised as C star) At low speed in a C* airplane, pitch rate applies whereas at higher speeds, g applies. The changeover is transparent and occurs, for example, at about 210 kts in Airbus A320 series aircraft. Boeing have made use of a modified C* control law called C*U where U’ represents aircraft forward speed and which provides apparent speed stability. This works by having the trim switches set a reference speed that is summed