The principle used is that of error control in which the position of a control surface (the output signal) is continually sensed and ‘fed back’ to its flight control computer (FCC). When a command input (the input signal) is made by the pilot or autopilot, the difference between the current control surface position and the apparently desired control surface position indicated by the command is analysed by the computer and an appropriate corrective signal is sent electrically to the control surface. Feedback compensation functions as error control and the FCC regulates the system by comparing output signals to input signals. Any error between the two becomes a command to the flight control surface until output equals input. In an FBW system the signal route from FCC to control surface is called the forward path while the signal route from the control surface to the FCC is called the feedback loop or path. Gain is the amplification or attenuation which is applied to the forward signal to achieve the desired aircraft response. A filter may be used to block feedback of signals or motion which occur at an undesirably frequent interval. An advantage of a feedback system such as this is that the flight control system (FCS) can be used to reduce sensitivity to changes in basic aircraft stability characteristics or external disturbances. The autopilot, a stability augmentation system (SAS), and a control augmentation system (CAS), are all feedback control systems. In a SAS, a damper function is formed in the feedback loop and usually has low gain, or authority, over a control surface. A CAS is implemented in the forward path and represents high-authority "power steering," providing consistent response over widely varying flight conditions. The CAS and SAS principles were used independently in military aircraft prior to fly-by-wire, integrated into an FCS, they can operate with more precision and much greater flexibility. Consistent aircraft response is achieved over a broad flight envelope through CAS gains that are programmed as functions of airspeed, mach, center-of-gravity position, and configuration.