metre-long runway and rapidly decelerating, having begun to do so six seconds before the Boeing 777 began its takeoff roll. For the next 25 seconds, the controller directed his attention to two aircraft on approach to runway 05 and to his displays before returning his attention to the runway 06L threshold and instructing a Jazz Aviation flight to line up. Meanwhile, the Boeing 777 was accelerating through 80 KCAS when its flight crew saw that the Embraer 190 was still on the runway ahead and half a minute after beginning their takeoff, a rejected takeoff was initiated 127 KCAS, 29 knots below the applicable V1. A subsequent maximum of 133 KCAS was reached before deceleration took effect and by the time their subsequent call announcing the rejected takeoff was made, the two aircraft were 1,500 metres apart. Twelve seconds after commencing the rejected takeoff, the Boeing 777 decelerated through a ground speed of 50 knots and the TWR controller, still unaware that the Embraer 190 was on the runway, acknowledged the rejected take off call. After failing to find evidence that it was airborne, the controller then saw it on the runway and made contact following which it exited the runway. The only Runway Incursion Monitoring and Conflict Alerting System (RIMCAS) stage 2 (critical conflict risk) generated due to the proximity of the two aircraft did not occur until the conflict risk was already being addressed and within 10 seconds, the Embraer 190 had exited the end of the runway at Taxiway D7 and the Boeing 777 had come to a stop slightly past the mid-point on the runway. It was found that the A-SMGCS track labels for the radar targets of both the aircraft involved had automatically changed to indicate that the aircraft were in the air even though neither had left the ground. The Embraer 190 showed as airborne for approximately 52 seconds - all the time it had exceeded 50 knots - and the Boeing 777 showed as airborne for approximately 23 seconds - all the time it had exceeded 100 knots. Both aircraft were simultaneously shown as airborne over the runway for two seconds. Since the RIMCAS is a sub-system of the A-SMGCS, this false data meant that collision avoidance alerting did not occur until both aircraft had decelerated below the speeds at which they would be detected as ‘on-ground’. Because of the Undetected Simultaneous Transmission (USiT) of the Embraer 190 crew announcing their rejected takeoff, prevention of a potentially serious ground collision had been wholly dependent on the timely sighting of an aircraft ahead by the Boeing 777 crew coupled with their prompt response. It was noted that the RIMCAS receives air/ground status of aircraft from a Multi-Sensor Tracker (MST), which uses an aircraft’s ground speed, acceleration, and ‘Ground Bit Set’ (GBS) values, the latter being sent as a Mode S reply message from the aircraft which is initially received by the MLAT system and then sent to the MST. The MST then uses configurable