An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). The FDR and CVR from both aircraft were downloaded and relevant data obtained. Flight crew experience was not recorded but it was found that the experienced TWR controller involved had been working at Toronto airport for 16 years and was an experienced instructor. It was, however, also noted that “he had never seen a high speed rejected takeoff in either a controller or an instructor capacity”. At the time of the event under investigation, the Toronto TWR controller was covering both the TWR North and TWR South positions whilst standing at the TWR North desk position. Parallel runways 06L and 05 were in use for both arriving and departing traffic. The traffic level, which consisted of “a small number of aircraft arriving but a constant line up of aircraft awaiting departure”, was described as “moderate”. To expedite departures, the controller was using “visual departure separation procedures” as provided for in the MATS (Manual of Air Traffic Services). These procedures were predicated on the following method of ensuring the separation of successive departures from the same runway: “A controller may authorise the second aircraft to take off, provided that one of the following applies before the second aircraft begins its take-off roll: ▪ The first aircraft has departed and turned to clear the departure path. ▪ The first aircraft has departed and reached a point on the departure path where it will not conflict with the second aircraft.” The Embraer 190 was cleared to take off from runway 06L and as soon as it had begun its take-off roll with the Captain as PF, the Boeing 777 was instructed to line up on the same runway. Twenty three seconds after beginning its takeoff roll, the Embraer 190 passed 50 knots as it continued to accelerate. Three seconds later, the A-SMGCS track label on the controller’s display indicated that it was airborne at 500 feet amsl at a speed of 50 knots. Twenty seconds later, the Embraer 190 was still on the ground and 7 knots below the applicable V1 of 146 KIAS when both pilots saw birds passing their side of the aircraft and the Captain, having heard a fuselage side impact ahead of the left engine and concluding that there was a risk of engine ingestion, decided to reject the takeoff and did so 1½ seconds later. This prompt action resulted in the maximum achieved ground speed being 139 knots. Half a second before the bird strike occurred had occurred to the Embraer 190, the TWR controller issued takeoff clearance to the Boeing 777 on which the First Officer was acting as PF. Simultaneously with this and the immediate readback, a call from the Embraer First Officer that they were rejecting their takeoff was made but not heard by either the controller or the 777 flight crew. At the time of the simultaneous radio calls, the Embraer 190 was about 1,500 metres from the beginning of the 2,956