was still on the runway.. The Embraer 190 struck a bird and conducted a rejected takeoff at a critical point during its take-off roll, just before the Boeing 777 received its take-off clearance and started its own take-off roll.. The first officer of the Embraer 190 made a radio call reporting the rejected takeoff, but this call went undetected by the controller or the Boeing 777 flight crew as it was overlapped by the radio call from the first officer of the Boeing 777 reading back the take-off clearance. As a result, neither the controller nor the Boeing 777 flight crew were aware that the Embraer 190 was rejecting the takeoff.. Because the controller was expecting the Embraer 190 to take off without interruption, he shifted his attention and priority to other aircraft movements. Focus on these tasks, combined with operating from the north tower position, reduced the controller's opportunity to detect the Embraer 190’s rejected takeoff and delayed the response to the conflict.. The Boeing 777 flight crew visually sighted the Embraer 190, believed it would soon be airborne and saw no apparent risk of collision; however, they were unaware that it was conducting a rejected takeoff and decelerating. Proceeding as authorised, the Boeing 777 flight crew commenced their take-off roll while the Embraer 190 was still on the runway, which resulted in a runway incursion and risk of collision.. The Embraer 190’s transponder transmitted that the aircraft was in air after the aircraft accelerated past 50 knots. As a result, although compliant with current standards, an inaccurate in-air status was transmitted for approximately 52 seconds while the aircraft remained on the ground during its take-off roll and rejected takeoff.. The RIMCAS relies on data from aircraft systems designed to provide aircraft flight status data for use by airborne surveillance systems. The use of this data by RIMCAS led to the inaccurate identification of the Embraer 190 and the Boeing 777 as in the air whilst both were still on the ground. This resulted in late and inaccurate RIMCAS alerts and delayed the response to the risk of collision.. A risk of collision occurred when the accelerating Boeing 777 was travelling at 133 knots indicated airspeed and was approximately 1500 metres from the decelerating Embraer 190. The risk was mitigated once the Boeing 777 flight crew rejected their takeoff after recognising that the Embraer 190 was still on the runway ahead of them.. One formally stated Finding as to Risk was also identified as follows: If the logic which determines flight status within the Runway Incursion Monitoring and Conflict Alert Sub-system (RIMCAS) has a latency of several seconds, the resulting delays in conflict detection increase the risk that the RIMCAS alerts will be ineffective.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event was recorded as including, in summary, the following: The TSB issued an Aviation Safety Advisory to highlight the importance of accurate flight status data being validated and transmitted by transponders and how this data is received,