speed and time values to “determine” the air/ground status of an aircraft. The relevant ground speed value for “minimum speed for takeoff when GBS is OK” was set to 50 knots so that once a departing aircraft exceeds 50 knots ground speed, an aircraft will show as airborne unless, as in the case of the Boeing 777, the aircraft’s GBS value is higher, in which case the change in status from ‘on-ground’ to ’in-air’ will be delayed until that value is reached provided it is available from the MLAT system. This system configuration was proposed by the RIMCAS supplier and approved by NAV CANADA as ANSP. It was noted that the RTCA Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) for Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon Systems/Mode S, DO-181 MOPS, required that “aircraft with the ability to automatically determine their in-air/on-ground status through weight-on-wheels sensors or other means are required to use such a capability to detect and transmit their status”. However, where this capability does not exist, DO181, with its focus on airborne conflict detection and pre-dating both A-SMGCS and RIMCAS, accepts any threshold value below 100 knots. The Investigation noted that aircraft other than the Embraer 190 “may have different override threshold values of less than 100 knots as well”. It was found that Transport Canada did not require Canadian airport operators to install an A-SMGCS and that it was considered that the main reason for such systems being installed was to increase airport capacity during reduced visibility whilst maintaining safety standards in such circumstances. The A-SMGCS installed at Toronto was found to combine inputs from surveillance radar, surface movement radar and the MLAT system but the Investigation “was unable to determine the rationale behind the RIMCAS default values (or) what the full extent of the repercussions would be if the parameters were modified and the setting of the in-air status at takeoff were delayed”. It was recognised that although a RIMCAS can be configured to overcome these limitations, doing this could cause false warnings to be generated “which might reduce controllers’ confidence in the sub-system”. Finally, it was found that although each TWR controller position has its own A-SMGCS display, no formal training in its use is provided so that controllers’ have to “learn how to use the system through experience and on-the-job training”. The Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were formally documented as follows: In order to achieve an expeditious flow of traffic, the controller was using pilot-applied visual departure separation procedures (in accordance with) NAV CANADA’s Manual of Air Traffic Services. In this occurrence, the operations conducted under the pilot-applied visual departure separation procedure were optimized to a point where separation was not assured.. Given the Embraer 190’s speed and position on the runway, the controller was not expecting a high-speed rejected takeoff. He assessed that the aircraft was becoming airborne and no longer required his attention and monitoring. As a result, he issued the take-off clearance to the Boeing 777 even though the Embraer 190