Oxygen for the use of the flight deck occupants is normally stored as pressurised gas in one or more tanks or cylinders. In certain aircraft types, oxygen is stored as a liquid (LOX). The total oxygen capacity must be sufficient to supply all flight deck occupants with adequate oxygen for a defined period of time at an altitude profile specified in the applicable National Aviation Authority regulations. Commonly, the altitude profile will incorporate an emergency descent segment and followed by a period in level flight at a defined altitude. A quantity gauge or other means of determining the amount of available oxygen will be incorporated. If a LOX system is installed, a LOX converter, which facilitates the transformation of the oxygen from a liquid to a gaseous state, will also be installed.. The total oxygen capacity must be sufficient to supply all flight deck occupants with adequate oxygen for a defined period of time at an altitude profile specified in the applicable National Aviation Authority regulations. Commonly, the altitude profile will incorporate an emergency descent segment and followed by a period in level flight at a defined altitude.. A quantity gauge or other means of determining the amount of available oxygen will be incorporated.. If a LOX system is installed, a LOX converter, which facilitates the transformation of the oxygen from a liquid to a gaseous state, will also be installed.. A regulator is installed to reduce storage cylinder pressure to a usable level. Depending upon the aircraft type, regulators can be constant flow or diluter-demand. Constant flow. The constant flow regulator provides the same output pressure or flow regardless of altitude. The regulator is therefore optimized for a specific altitude. At altitudes lower than the designed optimum altitude, it will provide more oxygen than is actually required. This type of regulator is most often found in non-pressurized aircraft and on portable oxygen systems. A single constant flow regulator is able to control the oxygen flow to all users. Diluter-demand. When installed, diluter-demand regulators will be located at each crew position. Depending upon user selection, the diluter-demand regulator can provide 100% oxygen, 100% oxygen under positive pressure or a mixture of oxygen "diluted" with cabin air on a specific, altitude based schedule. As an example, at 8000', the regulator might send 100% ambient air to the mask whereas at 41000', it would provide 100% oxygen. The regulator also works on "demand". That is, the oxygen or air-oxygen mixture only flows into the mask during inhalation. Note that the regulator might be a stand alone unit or it could be incorporated into the mask itself.. Constant flow. The constant flow regulator provides the same output pressure or flow regardless of altitude. The regulator is therefore optimized for a specific altitude. At altitudes lower than the designed optimum altitude, it will provide more oxygen than is actually required. This type of regulator is most often found in non-pressurized aircraft and on portable oxygen systems. A single constant flow regulator is able to