involved had been assigned to the DEP position from the corresponding Planner position, which was standard procedure for staff rotation. He had only the two aircraft which came into conflict to control. It was concluded that before taking over the position "he needed more time to organize and prepare himself, both mentally and physically" and noted that "the lack of a structured handover briefing between the two controllers […] did not allow the controller who was coming on duty to develop an accurate mental model to assist him in determining the actions that he should take in order to organize the traffic". The AIRPROX then took place approximately three minutes after the controller took over the DEP position. Shortly after the occurrence, he was "relieved from his assigned duties in accordance with the ATC unit’s procedure and policy following such events". No evidence was found that controller fatigue had affected controller performance in any way. It was noted that TCAS II v 7.0 and Mode 'S' transponders were installed on both the aircraft involved and these systems were serviceable and functioned in accordance with their design. It was found from radar recordings when the RAs occurred, both aircraft were at 5100 feet and the calculated horizontal separation was 1817 metres. Both aircraft then responded correctly to their TCAS RAs and 36 seconds later, the A320 was passing behind the 737 with a vertical separation of 700 feet and a horizontal separation of approximately 796 metres with separation increasing. TCAS 'Clear of Conflict' was annunciated soon afterwards. It was noted that the Minimum Separation Standard approved for use in the Dubai CTZ where the conflict occurred is 1000 feet vertically or 3nm laterally as determined by radar. An animation of the event is shown below at about the time when both aircraft received their TCAS RAs. The A320 Captain was found to have 17300 total flying hours including 6400 on type and was accompanied by a First Officer with 279 total flying hours, all on type. The 737 Captain was found to have 12600 total flying hours including 7100 on type and 1800 hours in command on all types and was accompanied by a First Officer with 412 total flying hours including 186 on type. It was noted that at the time of the investigated event, Dubai ATC used a radar system that did not provide STCAs whereas this capability did exist at the UAE ACC. The evaluation of the Dubai radar system had been trialled by simulation for the addition of STCA in 2008 but there was reported to have been "an unacceptable level of nuisance and false STCA alerts" because the STCA parameters could not be configured with the system software and the supplier had not then developed the applicable algorithms to resolve the problems. It was noted that at the time of the event, Dubai APP was the only UAE APP unit not to have STCA capability. Since the event, a new radar system has been installed which