includes STCA - and MSAW. The airspace context for the conflict was examined noting that Dubai APP handled departing traffic for two proximate airports, Dubai and Sharjah. Whilst no specific contribution to the investigated conflict was directly attributed to airspace and ANS configuration, the need to work proactively to ensure optimum arrangements continued to prevail in both respects was noted. The formal statement of Cause was that the AIRPROX Serious Incident resulted from "the loss of minimum separation between the two aircraft, which were following the instructions provided by ATC". Four Contributory Factors were identified as follows: The structure of the airspace. The lack of an alert provided to the ATCO to the imminent loss of separation. The lack of a structured handover briefing between the two ATCOs prior to the serious incident. The ATC clearance issued to the aircraft.. Four Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation, three during its initial stages and a further one upon completion. The three initial ones, all since implemented "and considered closed", were as follows: that the GCAA should provide clear guidelines with minimum ACAS II version for aircraft flying within UAE FIR. (SR17/2012). that the GCAA should immediately ensure that all UAE Civil ATC units equipped with radar and ADS-B displays shall provide and utilise safety related alerts and warnings, appropriate to the service provided, and units which have not yet complied shall provide alternative measures, acceptable to GCAA, which achieve an equivalent level of safety in the interim. (SR18/2012). that the GCAA should provide an Air Navigation Service Information Notice (ANSIN) to all UAE Civil ATC Units, requiring ANS Management to include awareness of the new ACAS11 version 7.1 capabilities and limitations in their initial and continuation ATCO training syllabus. (SR19/2012). The fourth one was as follows: that the GCAA should ensure that when an alert is activated it does not mask the traffic information on all UAE Civil ATC radar screens and that ATCOs have the ability to continue to control aircraft by maintaining visibility of all available traffic information. (SR01/2016). The Final Report of the Investigation was issues on 28 January 2016. Although the ICAO AIRPROX Classification system was discussed in the Report, no corresponding classification was assigned to the investigated event.