being activated, a series of EGPWS Warnings of ‘TERRAIN AHEAD’ and ‘PULL UP’ Warning began and continued for almost 20 seconds until impact occurred in a left-wing-down attitude with the left wing first at approximately 13,300 feet about 8.5 miles north northeast of Yasouj. The reconstructed vertical profile described is shown below. The role which encountering moderate airframe icing conditions had played in control difficulties could not be established but no evidence could be found to suggest that it might have contributed significantly to the terminal loss of control for which the underlying context had very clearly been shown to be an encounter with mountain wave conditions. It was surmised that in the attempt to become visual overhead the destination, the effect of risk of mountain wave air movement capable of exceeding the means available to control the aircraft flight path had either been underestimated or unappreciated. The performance of the flight crew was reviewed and in general it was found that there had been significant non-compliance with existing SOPs. The most potentially relevant such non-compliances included a failure to action the stall recovery procedure in its entirety, both the requirement to set the flaps to 15° and to use maximum power and maximum propeller rpm having been ignored. It was also concluded that in general, CRM had not been consistently effective with missed standard call outs and a prioritisation on indicators and related warnings being “major factors which unfortunately were missed” thereby reducing pilot situational awareness. The underlying context for the accident was clearly the attempt to become visual overhead the destination. It could be surmised that an experienced and senior pilot had apparently not understood that severe mountain waves are quite capable of making it difficult or even impossible to control the flight path of a modestly-powered turboprop aircraft and/or had not appreciated their potential effect on the accident flight. A considerable number of findings therefore related to a lack of appreciation of mountain waves as a hazard to safe flight not only by pilots (whether or not there was compliance with prevailing navigation procedures) but much more widely. The Probable Cause of the accident was formally documented as “the actions of the flight crew which created dangerous conditions for the flight”, their errors being identified as follows: Continuing to Yasouj for landing which was contrary to the requirements of the Company Operations Manual due to the low height of the cloud ceiling and the related cloud mass and which should have led to a diversion to an alternate airport.. Descent to an unauthorised altitude below the minimum for the route and below MSA. Lack of an adequate level of CRM during the flight. Failure to fly the complete the stall recovery (flap setting, max RPM).. Inappropriate attempt to use the Autopilot after the stall. Inadequate anticipation of adverse weather based on Operations Manual guidance (clouds, turbulence, and icing). The unjustifiably quick action to switch off the anti-ice system and thus the loss of the lower (icing) threshold