An Investigation was carried out by the Iranian CAO Accident Investigation Board (AAIB). An ELT signal from the aircraft was received on 121.5 MHz by a Fokker F100 en route south east of Yasouj after the accident but not by the ACC or by satellite. Two days later, a SAR helicopter detected a weak signal on 121.5 MHz (but not on the SARSAT frequency 406MHz) and the location of the wreckage was established. It was situated approximately 350 feet below the north face of a 13,412 feet summit in the chain of mountains running east-west across the likely ground track of the aircraft approximately 8½ nm from Yasouj. Evidence of an initial impact with the mountain a little over 100 feet below its summit was also identified. The SSCVR and SSFDR were located and recovered from the site of the accident two weeks after it had occurred, the delay being attributable to the deep snow at the site’s high altitude and subsequently, their data were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 62 year-old Captain was also the Chief Pilot of the ATR Fleet and a Training Captain who held current TRI and TRE ratings. He had flown in India from 2002 to 2007 and then returned to Iran to fly with Iran Aseman Airlines. He had a total of 17,926 flying hours including 12,519 hours on type and had made two flights to Yasouj during the previous three months. His medical was endorsed with a restriction that he must only fly with another qualified pilot if in command or alternatively as second in command. The 36 year-old First Officer, who was PF for the accident flight, had a total of 1,880 flying hours of which 197 hours were on type. It was also noted that Yasouj “is surrounded by Zagros mountain chain and the highest peaks of the mountains named Dena are located to the north of the airport”. It was also noted that “due to the particular geography of this airport location, the majority of airlines are not willing to fly there (and) most of the airport's flights are operated by Iran Aseman Airlines”. Yasouj is in Class ‘G’ airspace and there are mountains up to 13,800 feet amsl only 14 nm from the airport. It had an ATZ of 7 nm diameter up to 12,500 feet, all of which was Class ‘G’ airspace. The MSA within 25 nm to the north of the airport was 15,500 feet and the AIP stated that the only instrument approach at Yasouj was the Circling NDB approach. There was no STAR, so IFR flights from the north should follow ATS route W144 and respect the MEA of FL170 until overhead the airport before descending to 15,000 feet QNH in the holding pattern and commencing an approach to land on either directly on runway 31 or by circling to runway 13. Iran Aseman Airlines designated Yasouj as a Cat ‘C’ airport and the OM Part C and the applicable restrictions for all