ICAO considers implementation of Chicago Convention Annex 8 Standards to ensure that the State of Design and Manufacture supports other Contracting States with necessary information and the components required for the safety of their aircraft and remove civil aircraft from related embargoes.. that ICAO defines the extent of the responsibility which aircraft designers and manufacturers have in addressing the hazard of mountain waves in flight crew aircraft documentation.. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) ensures aviation authorities of EU countries which are States of Design and Manufacture support operating airlines’ flight safety requirements and separate civil aviation activities from sanctions.. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) clearly distinguishes the definitions of ‘qualified co-pilot’ and ‘fully qualified pilot’ as covered in the section on Operational Multi-pilot Limitations (OML) under the Aircrew Regulation.. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) ensures all aircraft manuals have a full description about mountain wave hazards and preventative requirements and guidance.. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) revises the stall recovery procedure in the ATR72-212 [ATR72-500] FCOM based on findings of this report and inform aircraft operators accordingly.. that the Iranian Interior Ministry defines responsibilities of the organisations involved in crisis management for participation in Search and Rescue following aircraft accidents and the related training and exercises which should be observed.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation reviews aviation personnel certification regulation in accordance with the findings of the report and having clarified the definitions of ‘qualified co-pilot’ and ‘fully qualified pilot’ issue the necessary instructions to airlines.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation improves procedures covering the lack of compliance of airlines with the requirements and mandatory technical publications aimed at ensuring the safety of aircraft operation.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation defines source of technical publications (the State of Design) for each type of aircraft that need to be followed by airlines operating those aircraft.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation sets a required plan for auditing airports that does not include the Aerodrome Certification requirement.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation develops the national aviation Search and Rescue programme in coordination with related government organisations, especially in respect of its implementation away from airports.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation empowers regulatory supervision on Annex 3 requirements.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation provides suitable oversight of the Iranian Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP).. that the Iran Meteorological Organisation researches requirement for issuing airport weather forecasts (TAF) based on ICAO Annex 3.. that the Iran Meteorological Organisation researches the possibility of issuing mountain wave hazard warnings in SIGMET form.. that the Iran Meteorological Organisation coordinates with the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation concerning the implementation of ICAO Annex 3 Standards.. that the Iranian Airports and Air Navigation Company facilitates weather forecasts at airports in accordance with the provisions of ICAO Annex 3 in coordination with the Iran Meteorological Organisation and update information provided in the AIP.. that the Iranian Airports and Air Navigation Company ensures air traffic controllers use standard phraseology..