maximising its mountain wave consequences. The intended final track to the Yasouj overhead has been added to the instrument approach chart (illustration shown above) and the track as actually followed is shown below against a view of the terrain orientation and the prevailing wind direction. After a very detailed analysis of all the available data, the Investigation concluded that the final 10 minutes of the flight had, in summary, proceeded as follows: Once the flight, initially still at FL210, had turned onto ATS route W144 at waypoint OBTUX, this being the direct route to the Yasouj overhead on a track of 200°M, the crew became aware that the BKN cloud at 9000 feet they had seen on the pre-departure METAR had deteriorated to OVC (overcast) cloud at 9000 feet with FEW CB 3300 feet. Since the elevation of Yasouj was 5,939 feet, the base of this overcast was at around 15,000 feet, below the charted MSA of 15,500 feet. There was no evidence that the required approach brief had been given in accordance with prescribed SOP, which explicitly included “any deviation from standard procedure, applicable minimum altitudes during descent, arrival and initial approach and any operational impact of the local situation, weather and aircraft deficiencies not yet covered”. The only remarks recorded on the CVR were about the go around procedure. The ACC controller cleared the flight to descend to FL170, the lowest permitted level on the route and the limit of Class ‘D’ airspace, and terminated radar service due to imminent loss of coverage. It was then handed over to the Yasouj FIS. Whilst passing FL193, the crew then decided on further descent below FL170 to FL150 on the basis that they expected to become clear of cloud at around 15,000 feet. There was no evidence from CVR data that the descent checks were completed. During this descent, the airframe de-icing system was selected for 2½ minutes at FL156 and switched off at altitude15,000 feet, the Local QNH of 1021 having been set by this time. The variation in vertical acceleration recorded on the FDR “was consistent with turbulent conditions” prior to reaching 15,000 feet, which occurred at 15nm from Yasouj. Soon after reaching 15,000 feet, a strong updraft was encountered and to maintain the speed at around 200 knots and stay level, the power levers were retarded to flight idle and pitch attitude changed to around -5°. Then, after little more than a minute of this, the updraft became a strong and more persistent downdraft. Despite the power levers being progressively moved towards the Maximum Continuous Torque position, the airspeed continued to decrease and as it reached a minimum of 117 knots, the stall warning was triggered and stick pusher activation immediately followed. The crew stall recovery actions were only partially completed and although airspeed did increase, the angle of attack remained high and control of the aircraft was quickly lost as a descent at over 3000 fpm developed and persisted. Within 10 seconds of the stall warning