operations into Cat C airports without a STAR included that: the approach and landing must be made only after not descending below the MEA until reaching the (undefined) ‘entry point’.. there must be no descent below the highest applicable MORA when descending from en-route in order to make an approach and landing to the designated runway.. descent must then only continue if the appropriate navigation facility is available and the MSA within 25NM has been published.. only when the runway is in sight may a visual approach be requested.. Both pilots had to be - and were - explicitly qualified to operate to Yasouj. Relevant Aircraft Equipment included: a Mark VIII EGPWS,. a pneumatic airframe de-icing system for the wing and horizontal leading edge surfaces supported by an aural alert to ice aerofoil ice accretion and an ‘Ice Evidence Probe (IEP)’ visible to both pilots.. an electrically delivered anti icing system covering the propeller blades, the windshield and forward part of the side windows, the pitot tubes, static ports, TAT probe, the AoA vanes and the aileron, elevator and rudder balance horns.. a Stall Protection System with stick shaker and stick pusher functions which used AoA inputs to lower the activation thresholds for both functions when it is “rapidly moving toward positive values”. It also had different AoA-derived activation thresholds for icing and non-icing conditions for each flap configuration to account for aerodynamic changes.. The aircraft had a power lever quadrant with a “notch” marked TO which represented the power limit for normal operations. With the power levers “close to” this notch, the power obtained depends on the “power management system” but if they are moved beyond this, then Maximum Rated Torque (MRT-92% Torque) can be set and a further advance to 100 % is permissible to recover the desired flight path if there is no obstacle in the way. It was noted that the three hour flight to Yasouj, which is about 340 nm south of Teheran, was the first of the day for both aircraft and crew. During pre flight preparations, the currently-available METAR for Yasouj was obtained and gave the main cloud cover as BKN (broken) at 9000 feet. It was noted that a TAF was not routinely issued for Yasouj (or for a number of other low-use airports) but according to the AIP, one could be made available with 30 hours’ notice. Both METAR and TAF were available for the two planned alternates, Isfahan and Shiraz and their weather conditions were good. The flight climbed to FL210 for the cruise and proceeded normally in contact with Tehran ACC. Only the final stage of the flight became challenging on account of the strong mountain wave weather conditions encountered in the lee of a mountainous ridge which would be crossed to reach the overhead at Yasouj from where the approach to land could commence. This wind was from a direction perpendicular to the mountain ridge and was subsequently assessed to have been blowing at around 60 knots, thereby