for stall protection. Both pilots’ failure to follow Checklists and use Standard Callouts. Five Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The airline was not capable of detecting systematic deficiencies in the effectiveness of crew training on Meteorology, the content of the OM and awareness and compliance with SOP and overall there was not enough operational supervision of pilot behaviour.. The lack of a SIGMET about Mountain Wave or Severe Mountain Wave in the area of the accident.. A lack of clarity in the procedure for stall recovery in the FCOM.. The absence of a warning in the manufacturer’s aircraft manuals to increase flight crew awareness about mountain wave risk.. The fact that the aircraft was not equipped with an Aircraft Performance Analysis (APM) System to alert the flight crew about performance degradation.. A Preliminary Report was issued in the early stages of the Investigation when some of the operational context of the accident had already become apparent included five Interim Safety Recommendations as follows: that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation takes a decision about operation of the Aseman Airlines’ ATR72 fleet based on non-compliance with AD 2009-0170 and ensures that introduced Alternative Methods Of Compliance (AMOC) for safe flight and related training and operational procedures are complied with.. NOTE: EASA AD 2009-0170 became effective on 24 August 2009 and made the installation of an Aircraft Performance Monitoring System (APM) system mandatory on ATR 42 and ATR 72 series aircraft equipped with a Multi Purpose Computer (MPC) and was intended to minimise hazards associated with the inadvertent encounter of severe icing conditions beyond the prevailing certification requirements for Part 25 aeroplanes “by providing the flight crew with measurable and objective evidence and timely alert when such severe ice conditions are encountered”. This requirement did not alter existing AFM emergency procedures for the encounter of severe icing conditions which “remained valid and must be applied”. The problem with them was that their application is based on the subjective detection of severe icing conditions by pilots. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation takes the necessary action to review operation manuals of airlines and restrict the flight mode from the IFR to the Visual Mode (V App) to enhance the safety of flights.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation improves procedures for verifying the implementation of technical requirements relating to aircraft airworthiness and ensures that necessary enhancements to aircraft operator safety requirements are adopted by the airlines.. that All Crew and Airlines are requested to research/monitor about the limitations of the crew (medical) certificates before planning of crew for the flight.. that All Airlines should review required process of briefing between dispatcher and pilots on weather information before dispatch release of the flights to ensure safe operation of flights with consideration of available weather conditions.. A total of 28 new Safety Recommendations - which were not uniquely identified in any way - were issued as a result of the findings of the Investigation upon its completion and presented in the following order: that