theoretical training, considering the feasibility of the adoption of training systems that utilise computers as a basic tool for learning (CBT) and the need to establish mechanisms for a better monitoring and evaluation of the teaching method applied during this phase. (A) 10 / A / 07. that ANAC should re-evaluate the requirements established for the professional development and knowledge-updating for technical crew members in the aviation industry under RBHA 121, notably in relation to the syllabus and training hours, aiming at adjusting them to the real needs observed at the operators. (B) 11 / A / 07. that TAM Airlines should carry out an internal audit of all the operation, training and maintenance processes conducted within the company, aiming at the gathering of non-conformities in relation to the regulation in force, as well as measuring the effectiveness of those processes. (B) 12 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should re-evaluate the Training Program, aiming at adjusting it to the real needs of the operation and considering the need for a better monitoring of the crew technical-operational conditions, the adequacy of the contact hours currently adopted and the efficacy of the methodology applied to theoretical training. (B) 13 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should refine the processes of performance monitoring of crews during their operational life in the company from the very beginning of the training, so as to allow for the timely correction of operational deviations. (B) 14 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should establish distinct training processes for the professional formation and updating of pilots, based on the crew performance monitoring mentioned in the Safety Recommendation (A) 14 / A / 08. (B) 15 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should unify the management of the practical and theoretical training of the crews, with the purpose of obtaining a better control of the quality of the professional formation and knowledge updating. (B) 16 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should establish mechanisms to ensure the standardisation of Flight Instructors, in order to improve the training, improve adherence to the prescribed operational procedures and provide familiarisation and experience to instructors on operating in the right-hand seat of the airplane. (B) 17 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should create incentive mechanisms to motivate flight instructors, besides acknowledging the importance of their role. (B) 18 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should establish criteria so that occupation of the right-hand seat of the aircraft flight deck is limited to Co-pilots, Instructors or Captains undertaking instructor training courses. (B) 19 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should re-structure CRM training, with the purpose of increasing the perception of the organisational culture influence on crewmember performance, while making it a permanently favourable element for the safety of operations. (B) 20 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should establish systematised processes for the oversight of training, technical-operational and maintenance activities, throughout the various management levels, seeking to obtain a coordinated action from