the inspecting mechanisms so as to ensure that Operators ensure traceability of events by means of proper recording and backup mechanisms. (A) 178 / 09. that ANAC should implement inspecting actions regarding the start and/or completion of the processes of certification of all airports where certification is mandatory in accordance with the regulations in force. (A) 179 / 09. that ANAC should evaluate the creation of Runway End Safety Areas (RESA) as prescribed in the RBAC 154/2009 at aerodromes included in the criteria established by RBAC 139 and inform the ICAO about contingent differences in Brazil relative to the Standards and Recommended Practices of Annex 14 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. (A) 180 / 09. that ANAC should revise the content of IAC 2328-0790 in order to include in the pertinent regulation a requirement for the obtaining of prior approval from ANAC regarding any project that results in alteration of the runway pavement (no matter what the objective is - renovation, repairing, resurfacing, etc.) which may lead to changes in the coefficient of friction, the macrotexture or any other characteristic capable of affecting the performance of the aircraft during landing and takeoff operations. (A) 181 / 09. that ANAC should, in coordination with the Airspace Control Department and observing ICAO Standards And Recommended Practices, revise the regulation in force which establishes procedures, assignments and responsibilities relative to the suspension and re-establishment of landing and takeoff operations at airports on account of temporary unavailability or changes to the physical and/or operational characteristics of the runways. (A) 182 / 09. that ANAC should refine the regulatory processes to allow for the immediate adoption of preventative measures for well known situations, so that the slowness of such processes does not diminish their prevention efficiency. (A) 183 / 09. that ANAC should promote a widespread dissemination of this Report, mainly to its internal public, as well as to the airline companies subject to RBHA 121 and to airport administrations. (A) 184 / 09. that INFRAERO should adopt appropriate provisions in order to allow the start of the certification processes of airports under its administration that are not still certified and whose certification is mandatory in accordance with the regulations in force. (A) 185 / 09. that INFRAERO should emphasise the need for coordination between the public security / civil defence agencies and the COMAER organisations in Complete Aeronautical Emergency Exercises (EXEAC) so as to ensure that the SIPAER investigators can work at the accident site at the earliest possible time without compromising safety. (A) 186 / 09. that INFRAERO should refine the educational activities prescribed in the Enterprise’s Aeronautical Accidents Prevention Program, so as to guarantee the understanding by personnel of the purpose and ways to use each of the SIPAER voluntary reporting tools, stressing the responsibilities of the Enterprise’s SIPAER-Link relatively to the treatment of the information received. (A) 187 / 09. that INFRAERO should refine the supervision processes relative to the execution of works in the movement area of the