(act or fact, or a combination of the two) which, together with other ones, in sequence or as a consequence, leads to or allows the occurrence of an aeronautical accident….or which contributes to the aggravation of its consequences” were considered and categorised as either ‘Human Factors’ or ‘Material Factors’. Those factors “whose contribution was effectively established, regardless of the degree at which such contribution occurred” were identified as such and other factors “whose contribution, however possible, was not confirmed” were categorised as “undetermined”. This distinction was qualified by the statement that such categorisation reflects only the ability “to confirm, with a reasonable degree of certainty, the presence of such factors among the actions and/or conditions which preceded the accident, and (it does) not imply the assignment of values or degrees of importance to any of them”. The ten factors determined to be contributing were as follows: Pilot Training - the means to theoretical qualification for pilots at TAM relied exclusively on CBT but the quality of this training was not assured In addition, the training of the SIC pilot was restricted to “Right Seat Certification”, something that proved insufficient for him to deal with the critical situation experienced after the landing.. Cockpit coordination - the monitoring of the flight at the landing was not appropriate, since the crew did not have perception of what was happening in the moments that preceded the impact. This loss of situational awareness hindered the adoption of an efficient and timely corrective action.. Management planning - the situation at TAM during rapid expansion was unsatisfactory. At the time of the accident, the operator had a disproportional number of Captains in comparison with the number of Co-pilots, a fact that obliged the scheduling sector to form crews with two Captains. Thus, although complying with the minimum regulatory requirement, such a practice may have contributed to the creation of a climate of complacency in the cockpit.. Low relevant experience of the Co-pilot - despite his long experience in commercial jets, the Co-pilot had only about 200 flight hours in aircraft of the A-320 type. Also, his experience in the function of co-pilot was restricted to the “Right Seat Certification” training received.. Management oversight - TAM routinely allowed the crew to be composed of two Captains, with the occupant of the right-hand seat having done only “Right Seat Certification” training. Besides, the lack of coordination between the several sectors of the company, especially between the sectors of operation and training, determined the lack of an appropriate monitoring of the processes and of the quality of the pilots’ professional training.. Perception error - although perceiving that the ground spoilers had not deflected, the pilots were not able to associate the non-deflection with the positioning of the thrust levers. In addition, there is a high probability that the pilots were led to believe that the lack of the expected deceleration after landing was a result of the conditions of operation with a wet runway. Lack of perception - considering the