the various sectors of the company for the benefit of the safety in the operations. (B) 21 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should re-structure the prevention activities conducted by the Safety sector, considering the possibility of having SIPAER accredited elements in the other sectors of the company, so as to increase the capillarity of the Safety Sector, consequently improving the safety mentality in the company, and increasing the effectiveness of prevention. (B) 22 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should create programs for the dissemination of the lessons learned about operational safety investigations (from accidents, high risk incidents, prevention reports, etc.) which adopt practices not restricted to the utilisation of electronic mail, favouring the personal involvement of the flight safety sector workers, along with the other employees. (B) 23 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should establish systematised processes to allow the company Safety Function to adequately manage the risks associated with operational activities, including the impacts the ICAO regarding the SMS (Safety Management System). (B) 24 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should refine the criteria and practices concerning the announcement of changes in operational procedures, aiming at guaranteeing the updating of all the crews, encouraging their commitment, and allowing for a better interaction between the crews and the operations sector. (B) 25 / A / 08. that TAM Airlines should re-affirm, before the crewmembers, the policy of the company relative to the adoption of the go-around manoeuvre as a preventative tool, so as to make it clearer and explicit, thus preventing possible deviations which compromise the operational safety. (B) 26 / A / 08. that Airbus France should evaluate the need to restructure the sequence of the texts contained in the manuals of the A-320 aircraft, so as to facilitate and expedite their handling, especially during a flight. (B) 27 / C / 08. that CENIPA should refine the monitoring mechanisms, favouring a more proactive identification of hazards and management of risks associated with aspects of the operation of the companies regulated by RBHA 121. (B) 28 / C / 08. Issued on 2 June 2008: that ANAC should study the need for a contingency plan for the monitoring of the technical operational and maintenance routine at TAM Airlines so as to ensure that the practices adopted by the Company guarantee the operation with safety and meet all the requirements established in the legislation in force. (A) 95 / A / 08. Issued on 27 October 2009: that ANAC should refine inspection processes so as to ensure that Operators fully report cases of recurrent failures and of failures, malfunctioning and defects, in accordance with RBHA 21. (A) 176 / 09. that ANAC should revise the acceptance process contained in the TAM Airlines’ General Maintenance Manual, to take account of the impact that the grouping of failures monitored by the quality system for correction during the execution of more comprehensive checks may have on flight safety. (A) 177 / 09. that ANAC should refine