airports under its administration, or in other areas that may impact on the airport operations, so as to ensure compliance with all the requirements of the respective approved project. (A) 188 / 09. that INFRAERO should submit for the prior approval by ANAC any project which may involve alteration to or renovation of the landing and takeoff runway pavement (independently of the nature of such work such as renovation, repair, resurfacing etc.) and that may lead to changes in the coefficient of friction, macrotexture or any other characteristic capable of affecting the performance of aircraft when landing or taking off. (A) 189 / 09. that TAM Airlines should revise the control processes of the maintenance records with the objective of ensuring the necessary traceability of the events. (A) 190 / 09. that TAM Airlines should revise the control processes of the maintenance records with the objective of ensuring the adequate management of the risk associated with the combinations of grouped failures to be monitored by the quality system, in the cases mentioned in the item 4.3.1 of the MGM. (A) 191 / 09. that TAM Airlines should revise the procedures and controls established for the records entered in Aircraft Technical Records sheets, with the objective of preventing misinterpretation and/or misunderstanding resulting from illegibility, erasures, lack of standardisation in the language used and lack of data. (A) 192 / 09. that TAM Airlines should establish mechanisms to ensure the effective communication of failures, malfunctioning and defects to the ANAC, as prescribed in the RBHA 121. (A) 193 / 09. that TAM Airlines should refine the voluntary reporting tool through the company’s corporate computer net, so that the identification of the report writer be no longer obligatory, thus preventing the inhibition of the participation of the employees in the processes of accident prevention. (A) 194 / 09. that TAM Airlines should refine the educational activities prescribed in the company’s Aeronautical Accidents Prevention Program, so as to guarantee the understanding by the personnel of the purpose and ways of utilisation of each one of the SIPAER voluntary reporting tools, stressing the responsibilities of the Enterprise’s SIPAER-Link relatively to the treatment of the information received. (A) 195 / 09. that TAM Airlines should reiterate, before the pilots, the importance of the compliance with the prescribed phraseology for the communications with air traffic control units, mainly in what refers to the provision of accurate information on the number of persons on board, endurance and alternate aerodrome. (A) 196 / 09. that TAM Airlines should reiterate the importance of the utilisation of flight data monitoring for the detection and treatment of deviation from the standards, ensuring the implementation of the necessary preventative actions (such as, additional training, revision of procedures, etc.), as well as the provision of appropriate feedback to the crews. (A) 197 / 09. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation should study the possibility of issuing a specific guidance as for the comprehensiveness of the applicability of the ICAO Annex 8 Standards And Recommended