07. that ANAC should monitor and evaluate, in coordination with the EASA, the proposed modification of the RETARD auto call-out system on the A-320 aircraft in terms of safety requisites and time for its implementation, so that it performs only the function for which it was designed, namely, to advise the crew to place the thrust levers in the “IDLE” position. (A) 171 / A / 07. that ANAC should issue, in the short term, an Airworthiness Directive so that the design of the A-320 aircraft includes a warning system to allow the crew to identify an incorrect setting of the thrust levers and take the necessary corrective actions to maintain the safety of the operation. (A) 172 / A / 07. that ANAC should establish certification criteria under RBHA 25 to require that aircraft designs already certified and aircraft designs in the process of certification have their power control systems and their warning systems optimised, so as to allow the identification of thrust levers which are incorrectly positioned during critical phases of flight. (A) 173 / A / 07. that ANAC should monitor and evaluate, in coordination with EASA, the proposal to modify the actuation logic of systems responsible for the deceleration of A-320 aircraft, in terms of safety requirements and time for its implementation, so that it considers the clear intention of the crew to make a landing and guarantees the effectiveness of the deceleration, even if the thrust levers are incorrectly positioned. (A) 175 / A / 07. that ANAC should evaluate, for aircraft certified under the RBHA 25, the advantages and disadvantages of selecting thrust reversers before verifying the deployment of ground spoilers and study the need to establish the best procedure from the perspective of flight safety. (A) 177 / A / 07. that Airbus France should establish a procedure for the A-320 aircraft model, regarding the landing phase, defining a corrective action to be taken by the crew when the ground spoilers do not deflect after the touchdown. (A) 168 / A / 07. that Airbus France should optimize the RETARD auto call-out system of the A-320 aircraft, so that it executes only the function to which it was designed, that is, advise the crew to set the thrust levers in the “IDLE” position. (A) 170 / A / 07. that Airbus France should enhance the logic of functioning of the systems responsible for the deceleration of the A-320 aircraft, so that it considers the clear intention of the crew to land and ensures the effectiveness of the deceleration, even if there is an incorrect positioning of the thrust levers. (A) 174 / A / 07. that Airbus France should evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of utilising the thrust reverser before verifying the deflection of the ground spoilers in the A-320 aircraft, and to establish a more proper procedure from the perspective of flight safety. (A) 176 / A / 07. Issued on 18 April 2008: that ANAC should ensure the real effectiveness of