An Investigation was carried out by CENIPA, the Brazilian Aeronautical Accidents Investigation and Prevention Centre. Data from the SSFDR and 30 minute SSCVR was successfully downloaded and provided important evidence to assist the Investigation. It was found that both pilots were experienced but that the Co-pilot, a former flight engineer who had recently been recruited by TAM as a Captain had recently completed his A320 type conversion with TAM and had only 237 hours experience on the aircraft type. At the time of the accident, a shortage of co pilots had led to him being cleared for co pilot duties only. It was established that four days prior to the accident, the aircraft had been released to service in accordance with the applicable Minimum Equipment List (MEL) with the number 2 engine reverser de-activated. It was noted that on the accident flight, it was tankering fuel uplifted at Porto Alegre. The airport at Congonhas, stated to have been the busiest international airport in Brazil at the time of the accident, is situated in an elevated position in the centre of São Paulo. It had two asphalt runways, the main runway, 17R/35L, which was at the time 1945 metres long and the auxiliary runway, 17L/35R, which was at the time 1435 metres long. Earlier landing aircraft on the day of the accident had advised the TWR that the active runway, 35L, was “wet and slippery”. At the time of the accident, neither runway had a Runway End Safety Area, the provision of which was an ICAO Standard under Annex 14. This situation had not been notified to ICAO in accordance with the article 38 of the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation. Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) and SPECI reports for Congonhas timed shortly before and just after the accident indicated that light rain had been falling, the lowest cloud had been between 800 feet aal and1600 feet aal with visibility between 6km and 8km and the surface wind from between 320º and 350º at 8-12 knots. The en route part of the flight and the approach to runway 35L at destination were uneventful. Shortly after the aircraft passed 20 feet agl, the CVR recorded the occurrence of the “RETARD” auto callout three times. At this time, the DFDR recorded the left engine thrust lever moving to "IDLE" whilst the right engine thrust lever remained at the ‘CL’ (MAX CLIMB) position - a thrust lever angle position of 25° ahead of ‘IDLE’. After touchdown at 142 KCAS, the left engine thrust lever was moved to the “REV” position but the right engine thrust lever remained in same position as previously. FDR readings of the EPR were found to correspond to those which would be expected for the recorded thrust lever positions for both engines. Three seconds after the nose landing gear touched down on the runway, there was a sudden yaw to the left which would have corresponded to the selection of the left engine thrust lever to reverse. The Co-pilot