hypothesis of a failure in the thrust control system, the contingent stimulus generated from the loss of resistance to the movement of the thrust levers may not have been perceived by the pilot(s).. Loss of situational awareness - emerged as a result of the very lack of perception on the part of the pilots. In this respect, the automation of the aircraft, however complex, was not capable of providing the pilots with sufficiently clear and accurate stimuli, to the point of supporting their understanding of what was happening in the moments just after the landing.. Regulation - although having already considered the availability of reversers as a requirement for operations at Congonhas since at least since April 2006, the Regulator only formalised this after the accident had occurred.. Design - there was no pilot alerting for the case of one thrust lever in the ‘REV’ position and the other at ‘CL’.. A total of 83 Safety Recommendations were issued to 9 different recipients as a consequence of the Investigation, 60 of these on 8 occasions as it progressed and the remaining 23 with the issue of the Official Report at its conclusion. Minor changes have been made to the originally-published English language translation of the Recommendations reproduced below in the interests of clarity but none of these changes alter the intent of the original wording. Some local abbreviations which will be unfamiliar to many and which are used in the Safety Recommendations are as follows: AAL, the INFRAERO Local Airport Administration ANAC, National Civil Aviation Agency CENIPA, Aeronautical Accident Investigation and Prevention Center IAC, Civil Aviation Instruction INFRAERO, Brazilian Airport Infrastructure Enterprise MGM, General Maintenance Manual RBAC, Brazilian Civil Aviation Regulation RBHA, Brazilian Aeronautical Certification Regulation SIPAER, Aeronautical Accident Investigation and Prevention System It was noted that local regulations established through SIPAER required that “each one of the identified factors (contributing or undetermined) be subject to at least one safety recommendation”. All the Recommendations made are presented here in the order in which they were issued (although the Official Report presents them by recipient) and they were as follows: Issued on 21 July 2007: that ANAC should immediately restrict the operation on the 17R/35L runway (main runway) of Congonhas Airport to the condition of a “dry runway”. (A) 45/ A / 07. Issued on 17 September 2007: that ANAC should consider the 17R/35L (main) and the 17L/35R (auxiliary) runways of Congonhas Airport as useable only when their surface characteristics meet the skid resistance requirements prescribed in IAC 4302, dated 28 May 2001, taking into account Safety Recommendation (A) 45 / A / 07. (A) 46 / A / 07. that ANAC should evaluate the condition of the 17R/35L (main) and 17L/35R (auxiliary) runways of Congonhas Airport, based on the results of the friction and surface texture measurement tests of their pavements, executed and forwarded by the Airport Administration after the construction, re-surfacing, maintenance or periodic inspection of the runways, in accordance with IAC 4302 dated 28 May 2001. (A) 47