An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The FDR was successfully downloaded but the 30 minute CVR had been overwritten during the diversion back to Aberdeen. A summary of the initial factual findings was published in a Special Bulletin on 2 March 2015. This noted that at that time, the Investigation had "not identified any technical malfunction which might account for the incident" and was going to focus on finding out how and why the loss of control had occurred and the circumstances which had enabled it to be regained. It was established that the aircraft had been level at 2,000 feet and on the ILS localiser for runway 27 at Sumburgh, when the Captain decided to discontinue the approach after observing a red-coloured convective cell on the weather radar just to the west of the intended landing runway. ATC were informed and, with the AP remaining engaged with Altitude Hold Mode set, a turn onto a southerly heading in HDG Mode was commenced. As the aircraft was about to roll out on the selected southerly heading, a lightning strike occurred, entering at the radome and exiting at the APU exhaust in the tail with "Ball Lightning" appearing briefly in the forward cabin immediately prior to the strike. Immediately after the lightning strike, the aircraft rolled wings level on the selected heading and the Captain "began making nose-up pitch inputs, which he augmented with nose-up pitch trim inputs using the pitch trim switches". The First Officer transmitted a MAYDAY to ATC. The aircraft climbed but the Captain "perceived that his increasingly purposeful pitch control inputs did not appear to be having the expected effect". The First Officer made similar nose-up pitch inputs and also pitch trim inputs, but she also "perceived that the aircraft was not responding as expected". Pitch and roll mistrim indications were presented on both PFDs in the form of a flashing ‘P’ and a flashing ‘R’ for the respective conditions and autopilot pitch and roll mistrim cautions were presented on the EICAS. The Captain instructed the First Officer to select the elevator emergency trim switch on the overhead panel and both pilots then made further inputs on the control-column-mounted pitch trim switches. These had no effect because the system had not detected a failure condition which by design was necessary to arm the emergency switch. ATC was asked to pass the aircraft altitude as displayed on radar and did so. Then, "as the aircraft reached 4,000 ft amsl, the pitch attitude tended towards nose-down and a descent began". The pitch trim was almost fully nose-down and despite full aft control column inputs, the descent continued. The pitch attitude reached 19° nose down and speed reached 330 KIAS, 80 knots above Vmo. The rate of descent peaked at 9,500 fpm as the aircraft descended through 1,600 feet amsl. ATC continued to give intermittent readouts of the radar displayed altitude throughout this descent. Unknown to the pilots, a transitory detection of invalid data from one of