cautions which were a cue that the autopilot was still engaged. This was probably the result of cognitive tunnelling.. During the time when control had been lost, the autopilot’s nose-down elevator trim authority exceeded the Captain's elevator nose-up authority causing the aircraft to descend at a very high rate and at increasing speed.. Only a transient data transmission fault which did not subsequently recur and in respect of which no fault was found allowed the Captain's nose-up pitch trim inputs to become effective in time to successfully respond to the EGWS warnings of imminent sea impact.. The design of the Saab 2000 autopilot system differs from that of 22 other transport aircraft types surveyed in that it was the only one fitted with an autopilot which, when engaged, had the following three attributes: Applying an override force to the column will move the elevator but will not cause the autopilot to disengage. The autopilot can trim in the opposite direction to the pilot applied control column input. Pressing the main pitch trim switches has no effect and will not cause the autopilot to disengage.. Applying an override force to the column will move the elevator but will not cause the autopilot to disengage.. The autopilot can trim in the opposite direction to the pilot applied control column input.. Pressing the main pitch trim switches has no effect and will not cause the autopilot to disengage.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency review the design of the Saab 2000 autopilot system and require modification to ensure that the autopilot does not create a potential hazard when the flight crew applies an override force to the flight controls. [2016-050]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency review the autopilot system designs of aircraft certified under part 25 or equivalent regulations and require modification if necessary to ensure that the autopilot does not create a potential hazard when the flight crew applies an override force to the flight controls. [2016-051]. that the Federal Aviation Administration review the autopilot system designs of aeroplanes certificated to Federal Aviation Regulation Part 25 and require modification if necessary to ensure that the autopilot does not create a potential hazard when the flight crew applies an override force to the flight controls. [2016-052]. that the Federal Aviation Administration amend Advisory Circular 25.1329-1C to ensure that requirement 25.1329(l) can only be met if the autopilot automatically disengages when the flight crew applies a significant override force to the flight controls and the auto-trim system does not oppose the flight crew’s inputs. [2016-053]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency amend the Acceptable Means of Compliance for Certification Specification 25.1329 to ensure that requirement 25.1329(l) can only be met if the autopilot automatically disengages when the flight crew applies a significant override force to the flight controls and the auto-trim system does not oppose the flight crew’s inputs. [2016-054]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 6