determine that the reason for the unusual forces is that the autopilot is engaged". Given that indications of abnormal AP pitch and roll status "were not acted upon", it was noted that "pilots who are experiencing difficulty simply in achieving the desired flight path may accord lower priorities to non-handling tasks, at least until the flight path is under control". It was also noted that in such circumstances, pilots’ ability to seek and process relevant information and then use it to identify the root cause of their difficulty may be impaired. It was also considered that there is "an uncertainty over the effectiveness of simulator training in altering the fundamental behaviour exhibited by pilots under such stress" and that "the previous regulatory action requiring modification of the Airbus A300/A310 and Fokker 70/100 aircraft types to address confusing and stressful conditions of similar origin was consistent with such a conclusion". It was noted that "if the autopilot system had been designed to sense pilot-applied control forces and to disengage when it sensed a significant force [...] it would have disengaged about 20 seconds after the lightning strike" and there would have been no loss of control. A similar early resolution would have applied "if the autopilot system had been designed such that operating the pitch trim switches caused the autopilot to disengage […] if, as he reported, the Captain had been pressing the pitch trim switches to try to reduce the high control forces he was feeling". It was further noted that current type certification requirements (AC 25.1329-1C and EASA AMC 25.1329) mandate that an AP should not create a hazard (Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)) or unsafe condition (European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA)) when an override force is applied by the pilot and that this requirement can be satisfied if either override leads directly to disengagement or this can be achieved by operation of the control wheel pitch trim switch. An additional contributory factor in the investigated loss of control was noted as having been that at high speeds, the pitch trim had more elevator authority than the control column so that "even with full aft column held, the pilot was not able to prevent the nose from dropping". Whilst the AP was designed to disengage if extreme pitch and bank angles were exceeded, "it was not designed to help prevent speed exceedances" so that the AP had in this case continued to trim nose down even though the Vmo speed of 250 KIAS had been significantly exceeded. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: the aircraft had responded as expected to the recorded control deflections and the lightning strike caused no significant damage or system faults.. the manual control inputs made by the Captain following the lightning strike appear to have been instinctive and may have been based on his assumption that the autopilot would disconnect when lightning struck whereas it did not.. The Captain did not recall having seen or heard any of the aural or visual mistrim