was uncertain whether the control column moved in pitch in response to autopilot action when the autopilot was engaged. He stated that the autopilot could be disengaged by operating the pitch trim switches or the autopilot disconnect buttons on each control column and would disconnect in the event of a stall being sensed by the aircraft systems. He was not aware of the meaning of the ‘P’ symbol which appeared on the PFD during the incident. He stated that a momentary loss of engine-driven generators was "a likely consequence" of a lightning strike in flight and that this would result in loss of autopilot and EFIS screen displays. He had not previously experienced an aircraft lightning strike but it was noted that when on the Saab 340 he had flown a training exercise "in which a lightning strike was assumed to be the trigger for a double generator failure, as a consequence of which the autopilot disconnected". Examination of meteorological data indicated that the lightning strike had been triggered by the presence of the aircraft and noted that such strikes cannot be avoided by the usual means such as use of airborne weather radar. The aircraft manufacturer reviewed its records of lightning strikes to Saab 2000 aircraft and found that none of those it was aware of had resulted in the disengagement of the autopilot. Inspection of the aircraft showed that damage caused by the strike had been minimal and fairly typical - just at entry and exit points. However, it was considered that the Captain may have attributed the control difficulties experienced to a malfunction caused by the strike. The Investigation noted that one authoritative source warns that the disconcerting effects of a lightning strike "may lead to disorientation and loss of control unless pilots are fully prepared". Recorded data showed that the AP had remained engaged following the strike and that this had continued to be so until it disconnected automatically as the aircraft descended through 3,600 feet at a rate of descent rapidly increasing through 4,250 fpm because one of the Flight Control Computers (FCC 2) had detected bad or missing data in the feed from ADC 2 for at least 99 milliseconds during the steep descent. The consequence of the AP disconnect was that nose-down pitch trim ceased and the Captain's subsequent pitch trim switch inputs began to be effective in reducing nose-down pitch trim and, as the EGPWS alerts/warnings began soon afterwards, allowed the aircraft to begin pitching up. It was noted that the AP disconnect had occurred at a 10° nose-down pitch attitude. If the ADC fault had not occurred, an AP disconnect would have occurred when the aircraft had reached the AP pitch limit of 17° nose-down - it reached a maximum of 19° down as the 9 seconds of EGPWS 'PULL UP' Warnings started. This occurred shortly before the maximum rate of descent of 9,500 fpm and maximum airspeed of 330 knots were recorded - Vmo is 270 KIAS. The minimum recorded