height taken from the two ADCs as recovery took effect was between 1,050 and 1,100 feet amsl and vertical acceleration during the recovery reached a recorded 2.3 g. As there had been no in-flight ADC faults of any sort recorded since, ADC 2 was not removed for further investigation. Indication of AP status was noted to be available on both PFDs (a white AP annunciation when not engaged and a green AP annunciation when engaged) and by inspecting the position of the 'autopilot engage lever’ on the flight deck centre pedestal to see if it is 'engaged' or 'disengaged'. The AP can be manually disengaged by using the disengage buttons on the control columns, by moving the Disengage lever or Standby Trim switches on the centre pedestal or by pushing the go around palm switches on the Power Levers. Automatic disengagement will occur in the event of invalid system input data or bank angle exceeds 45°, pitch down exceeds 19° or pitch up exceeds 25°. Operation of the main pitch trim switches on the control columns does not disengage the AP, neither can the pilot achieve disconnection by overriding the AP with contrary manual inputs on the control column. An attempt to move the control column while the AP is engaged will not disengage it and, depending on selected settings, the AP servo may command opposing pitch trim as happened in the investigated event. Such action will cause a flashing ‘P’ to be annunciated on the PFDs. If the pilot control column inputs are maintained continuously for at least 10 seconds, the 'P' changes to a continuous annunciation and the EICAS Caution 'AP PITCH MISTRIM' (with a corresponding Master Caution light/chime for attention-getting purposes) is generated. Flight Crew override effects on the AP systems of the main 'western' transport aircraft types were reviewed by the Investigation and compared with the Saab 2000 case. Whilst this comparison did not include all currently in service aircraft types, it showed that the only types checked for which fore/aft force override on the control column and/or pressing of the main pitch trim switches did not disengage the AP, apart from the Saab 2000, were early versions of the Airbus A300/AIRBUS A-310 and the Fokker 70/100, both of which were modified to align with the general standard after related accidents/serious incidents, notably the loss of an A300 at Nagoya, Japan in 1994. In terms of human factors, the Investigation noted that for an aircraft with fly-by-wire controls such as the Saab 2000 which lack any physical feedback, it may be harder to determine the existence of a flight control malfunction or abnormal status because the effect of control inputs can only be assessed from aircraft response, and the force required to move the control column is increased over that normally required. However, "this is not a usual mode of operation and pilots are unlikely to be familiar with it" so that a pilot sensing greater than usual resistance to control column movement "may not readily