the ADCs then led to the AP - which they had not appreciated had remained engaged - disengaging and as both pilots maintained their nose-up pitch inputs, the aircraft began to pitch up. As the minimum height achieved - 1,100 feet amsl - was reached, the EGPWS generated a series of 'SINK RATE' Alerts and 'PULL UP' Warnings. The Captain applied full power and the aircraft began climbing and the EGPWS PULL UP Warnings stopped. However, still under the impression that "elevator control response was not normal, or had been lost altogether" he instructed the First Officer to select pitch control disconnect. Given that to her, the pitch control did not appear to be jammed, the First Officer queried the instruction and the commander responded by selecting pitch disconnect himself which left each control column connected to its respective (on-side) elevator. The climb then continued normally to FL 240 and a diversion back to Aberdeen was completed without further event. The subsequent recall of the event by both pilots was extremely patchy. When interviewed, both pilots stated that "immediately the lightning struck, the autopilot disconnected and the ‘cavalry charge’ tone sounded". They did not remember any climb prior to a steep decent and stated that "the aircraft began descending immediately after the lightning struck". Both did remember "making nose-up pitch inputs in an effort to regain height". The Captain did not remember seeing or hearing any EICAS cautions or warnings during the event and the First Officer did not remember seeing any mistrim cautions or warnings presented on the EICAS. The First Officer recalled seeing ‘PB’ or ‘PR’ annunciations on her PFD and being aware that 'P' and 'R' indicated an autopilot pitch/roll mistrim but not familiar with ‘B’ annunciation, considered that it might have indicated that a 'Pre Flight Built in Test (PBIT) was in progress. The Captain recalled that during the event he had seen the slip indicator moving from its neutral position and "found it necessary to make rudder inputs" and that the aircraft had been “lurching oddly”. It was noted that the 42 year-old aircraft commander had 5,780 total flying hours including 143 were on the aircraft type. He had joined the Operator in 2005 as a Saab 340 First Officer before gaining a command on that type, on which he accumulated 4,640 hours before converting to the Saab 2000 and gaining a type rating on it four months prior to the investigated event. He was PF during the event. The 35 year old First Officer had 1,054 hours total flying time which included 260 hours on type, obtained after joining the Operator earlier in the year. She had gained a professional licence in 2012 and initially worked on twin piston and turboprop aircraft. Both pilots had observed elevator malfunctions being demonstrated during type conversion training and participated in an exercise involving use of the elevator emergency pitch trim system to control pitch during an approach and landing. It was found during interview that the Captain