below. The Investigation considered the CVR evidence of crew interaction and concluded that the aircraft commander had maintained an entirely passive role and that critically, not only had both he and the operating Captain allowed the approach to continue when the RVR was below landing minima but had also not intervened when the continued high rate of descent at flight idle clearly constituted an unstable approach. It was also noted that the First Officer had failed to automatically commence a go around when the required visual reference was not available at DA. The absence of any crew response to the EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ and ‘PULL UP’ annunciations was noted. It was found that the failure of the AP to capture the ILS GS when it had finally been reached at 388 feet agl was the result of the continued high rate of descent and the closeness of the GS transmitter. This had triggered the aircraft’s ‘BEAM ANOMALY DETECTION’ response and with the AP still engaged, the aircraft had attempted to maintain the existing rate of descent. No evidence of a continued airworthiness factor relevant to the circumstances of the accident was found in respect of this or any other system. The summarised Findings of the Investigation included the following: The weather conditions were below minimum for the selected approach and this was known to the crew.. The straight-in approach performed was contrary to the applicable published procedural approach procedure.. The ILS localiser was captured whilst still above the glideslope and an attempt to capture it from above resulted in an excessive rate of descent.. An ILS Cat 1 approach was continued to touchdown without disconnecting the Autopilot.. Crew actions were comprehensively inconsistent with CRM principles.. The crew left the airport without informing the aerodrome operator or ATC of the accident or the damage they knew had been caused to the approach lights.. The Cause of the accident was formally stated as “failure to execute a missed approach procedure despite the failure to meet the criteria for a stabilised approach during an attempt to intercept the ILS G/S from above at an excessive descent rate under meteorological conditions below the minimum for the aerodrome”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: Errors in flight crew co-operation (inadequate CRM).. The failure of the crew to perform the approach in accordance with the published procedure.. The lack of any response from the crew to the warning signals generated by GPWS.. Continuing to a landing on aerodrome equipped with ILS CAT I with the Autopilot (still) engaged.. Comprehensive Comments by Air Europa on a final draft of the Investigation Report were submitted on 8 November 2017. The Findings of the Investigation were all accepted and the many significant changes in Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and the introduction of an SMS and OFDM since the Accident were noted. SOP changes had included the introduction of a requirement for the pilot in command to be seated at the controls. It was also confirmed that following the accident,