serial habit rather than a one-off which was supported by the fact that the operator did not require such activations to be reported by crew or - in the specific case of the DHC8-400 only - have an OFDM process which would capture them.. Pilot Training on the use of the EGPWS installed on the -400 variant was inadequate as was Operations Manual content on the requirement to respond to both cautions and warnings. Due to the frequent occurrence of EGPWS activations, the operator’s flight crew were habitually ignoring them.. The -400 version of the DHC6 was, unlike the -300 version, equipped with modern flight deck instrumentation including modern avionics which, amongst other things, facilitated GNSS based navigation.. There was no formally documented ‘escape route’ in the event that a Jomsom-bound flight was unable to land there although such routes were documented for other Nepalese STOL airports such as Pokhara.. In respect of what represented “operations normal” for the accident aircraft flight crew, in particular for the Captain, the Investigation examined the CVR and FDR data for the Pokhara-Jomsom rotation which the same aircraft and crew had completed the day prior to the accident. This was found to show that: Although Pokhara was opened for departures only and Bhairawaha airport was closed due to poor weather, the flight departed for Jomsom anyway.. On the outbound flight, the aircraft was in IMC until reaching Ghorepani after which VMC prevailed.. EGPWS cautions and warnings were activated several times during the outbound flight.. During the return flight, VMC was maintained until Ghorepani after which the flight descended in IMC until reaching 7,800 feet.. After completion of this flight duty, both pilots had a rest period in excess of 18 hours during which they were accommodated overnight in company-provided crew accommodation.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of this CFIT accident was “the fact that despite of unfavourable weather conditions, the crew repeatedly decided to enter into cloud during a VFR flight and deviated from the normal track due to their loss of situational awareness aggravated by spatial disorientation”. It was additionally determined that there had been five Contributing Factors: Loss of situational awareness. Deteriorating weather conditions. A skill-based error by the crew during critical phases of flight. The crew’s failure to utilise all available resources (CRM) and especially their insensitivity to EGPWS cautions/warnings. he reluctance on the part of crew to follow the VFR rule. One Interim Safety Recommendation was made during the Investigation on 3 April 2016 as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should immediately enforce the cessation of the practice of an aircraft commander acting as Pilot Monitoring and the First Officer acting as Pilot Flying during VFR flight in domestic sectors in the event of serious and critical en-route circumstances such as IMC Conditions, EGPWS Terrain Warnings, TCAS RA, Stall Warnings, Severe Turbulence/Thunderstorm, low visibility and cloudy conditions etc.. A further 23 Safety Recommendations were made upon completion of the Investigation as follows: that Tara