10,000 feet QNH. One minute after the EGPWS Warning had ceased and passing 11,000 feet on heading 321°, a two second-long ‘OVERSPEED’ warning sounded as the airspeed reached 152 KCAS. The reconstructed ground track (green), the VFR flight plan track (mauve) and crash site (red). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Two minutes later, with 200 feet to go before reaching 10,000 feet, an EGPWS TERRAIN caution was annunciated. The rate of descent was reduced but after eight seconds had passed, with the aircraft now at 10,100 feet, an EGPWS ‘PULL UP’ Warning commenced and continued. The Captain was recorded immediately responding by remarking “nothing to worry about” but on reaching 10,000 feet, he “took over control, initially continued descent and asked the First Officer whether his side was visual”. A gentle climb was then started and at 10,150 feet whilst the PULL UP warning was continuing to sound, the Captain informed the First Officer that he intended to turn towards the waypoint ‘LETTE’. Pitch up attitude was only 7° as the right turn commenced, but was slowly increased during the turn and once the wings were levelled, it was increased to 12° degrees nose up. A few seconds later, a shallow left bank began and by 10,550 feet, the left bank angle had reached 20°. Six seconds later, on a heading of 335° with the left bank angle increased to 25° and the nose-up pitch angle reduced to 7°, with the EGPWS ‘PULL UP’ warning active, the lower rear fuselage of the aircraft contacted the up-sloping terrain at 10,700 feet and after a further 77 metres it was then completely destroyed by a further and more direct impact at 10,982 feet. The accident site is shown below and once located, it became clear that impact had been followed by a fuel-fed post crash fire which had consumed the whole main fuselage structure which incorporated the fuel tank in its belly. The wreckage as found the following day. [Reproduced from the Official Report] There was no evidence to suggest that any airworthiness deficiency had played any part in the accident. The prevailing weather conditions clearly were relevant but only insofar as they created the circumstances which made the accident possible. The weather encountered did not include any potentially hazardous phenomena such as windshear, severe turbulence, up/down draughts, thunderstorm and/or icing conditions. All the factors involved were found to be within the general area of “human factors” and effectively encouraged “plan continuation bias”: The departure into what were evidently marginal weather conditions for a VFR flight to the intended destination was evidently not unusual. There was “a tendency amongst flight crew to disregard the alternate weather conditions and the weather at the departing aerodrome”. The previous day’s flight had been commenced in similar circumstances.. The acceptance of flight in conditions where VFR could not be maintained was evidently commonplace despite the strict flight plan and clearance condition.. The complete failure to respond as required to EGPWS activation when in IMC was a