Air should maintain an effective operational control of its aircraft even when away from the main operations base.. that Tara Air should provide adequate skill-based training for pilots when new technology is introduced on the aircraft.. that Tara Air should ensure compliance with the provisions of VFR flight as stipulated in their OM.. that Tara Air should review the content of its OM to make it clear that in marginal weather conditions (rain, moving cloud or haze) with low visibility and a low cloud ceiling, there must be no attempt to continue a VFR flight.. that Tara Air should devise some mechanism for determining en-route weather conditions to ensure safe operation along the routes serving remote airports.. that Tara Air should comply effectively with ELT registration and other technical requirements such as compass swinging when importing new aircraft.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should reinforce and strengthen its safety oversight capability.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should facilitate and develop procedures relating to navigation and communication along the routes serving remote airports.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should devise some mechanism for en-route weather service to ensure safe operation along the routes serving remote airports.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should implement Safety Management Systems at all airports.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should effectively implement registration and other technical requirements such as compass swinging for imported aircraft.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should ensure that the visibility observed by the ATC tower and reported from Met office using same visibility check point chart is consistent.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should improve its supervision of pilot training and documentation (differential training and validation of type certificate etc.).. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should examine the feasibility of installing an in-built antenna type ELT or any other alternate means in addition to the standard antenna to facilitate a timely search and rescue operation for Nepalese-registered aircraft.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should carry out a study to gradually introduce some requirements for the installation of suitable cockpit image recorders in aircraft already equipped with an FDR and a CVR.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should, in coordination with operators, initiate a review of the existing Flight Data Monitoring programmes to ensure that they are capable of monitoring operating standards applicable to the en-route phase of STOL flight operations.. that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation should establish a permanent and separate Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission within the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation.. that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation should ensure that sufficient resources (financial, personnel, technical) are made available to the commission for its effective and timely investigation.. that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation should develop and adopt an Accident Investigation Procedure Manual.. that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and