This section outlines the basic requirements for weather observer accreditation. Note that these may vary from country to country. The Aerodrome Meteorological Observing Service Provider is responsible for ensuring the competence of each aerodrome meteorological observer employed at the aerodrome.. The Aerodrome Meteorological Observing Service Provider should ensure that observing staff are sufficiently familiar with all meteorological phenomena that can reasonably be expected to occur at the aerodrome.. The requirements for a Meteorological Observer’s Certificate may vary from country to country, but usually each aerodrome meteorological observer must successfully complete a recognised course of training on the preparation of aerodrome weather reports and must demonstrate basic competence in compiling such reports.. The certification process usually comprises two parts: The theory part provides the necessary background information on all elements of aerodrome meteorological observing; this is examined to ensure that the concepts have been fully understood. The practical part puts the aerodrome meteorological observer trainee under the supervision of an experienced observer so that observing techniques are practised and the performance assessed.. The theory part provides the necessary background information on all elements of aerodrome meteorological observing; this is examined to ensure that the concepts have been fully understood.. The practical part puts the aerodrome meteorological observer trainee under the supervision of an experienced observer so that observing techniques are practised and the performance assessed.. When semi-automated observing systems are used, measurements of horizontal visibility, present weather and cloud need to be validated by an accredited observer before being issued as a METAR. In such cases reduced training may be provided, concentrating on observing these elements. A restricted met observer’s certificate is then awarded to clearly describe the holder's competence. A restricted met observer’s certificate may only be transferred to another aerodrome where a semi-automated observing system is in operation.. The Aerodrome Meteorological Observing Service Provider should ensure that all accredited aerodrome met observers maintain their observing competence. Provisions regarding the required conditions for certificate maintenance (e.g. minimum number of observations made over a period of time) are laid down in relevant documents.. Following changes to observing practices or aeronautical codes, the Aerodrome Meteorological Observing Service Provider should ensure that all staff are made aware of the changes and additional training is arranged as necessary.. Refresher training is required for the met observers nominated to carry out the competency checking of their colleagues. Met observers who have not observed for a specified period of time are subject to refresher training too..