This section outlines the general requirements for the provision of meteorological data and reports. Note that these may vary from country to country. At licensed aerodromes, the aerodrome licensee is responsible for arranging the provision of aerodrome weather observations and other meteorological information to users. This function may be performed by staff directly employed or contracted by the aerodrome licensee.. The compilation of aerodrome weather reports are usually defined as a responsibility of the Aerodrome Meteorological Observing Service Provider (which, in most cases, is an ANSP).. A system should be in place that assures users that the quality of meteorological information supplied complies with the relevant regulation requirements.. Official Meteorological Reports, if in the form of a meteorological aerodrome report (METAR), may be disseminated beyond an aerodrome to pilots and other meteorological service providers using processes that adhere to ICAO Standards. The observer should be accredited and competent to produce these observations and the instrumentation used should comply with the relevant regulation requirements.. The Met Observers at an aerodrome should be located, as far as possible, in a position that enables them to supply observations which are representative of the aerodrome and its vicinity.. The observer should continuously monitor the weather. Observations should be updated, as necessary, in a timely manner.. A weather report that has not been validated by an accredited observer may be distributed locally and to the meteorological forecast office. Such a report needs to be clearly identified as unofficial and prefixed as such when being passed to aircraft or other agency.. The observer is expected to provide a full non-routine observation at the time of an aircraft accident on or in the vicinity of the aerodrome. This is done to ensure that complete details of the weather at the time of the incident will be available to an official inquiry.. Automated sensors used to measure certain meteorological elements (typically visibility, present weather and cloud) should be considered to be an aid to an observer rather than a direct source of information for the official weather report. Also, procedures should ensure that any observation generated by a semi-automatic observing system is not disseminated unless it has been checked and qualified by an accredited observer.. Procedures for automatic weather report generation and dissemination should be in accordance with local regulations..