290V090 or 170V250).. Criteria for reporting wind as "variable" are the same as in METAR.. The visibility, RVR, weather and cloud groups are replaced by CAVOK (Cloud And Visibility OK) when the following conditions exist simultaneously: Prevailing visibility is 10 km or more.. No minimum visibility is reported.. No cloud below 5000 ft or below the highest Minimum Sector Altitude, whichever is the greater.. No towering cumulus or cumulonimbus clouds.. No significant weather phenomena at or in the vicinity of the aerodrome.. In the METAR, the visibility reported is the prevailing visibility and, under certain circumstances, the minimum visibility. In order to determine the prevailing visibility and any requirement to report the minimum visibility, the variation of visibility in all directions around the aerodrome should be considered.. Prevailing visibility is defined as “the greatest visibility value that is reached within at least half the horizon circle or within at least half of the surface of the aerodrome. These areas could comprise contiguous or non-contiguous sectors.”. The visibility reported in the METAR should be assessed at a height of about 1.5 m above the ground at the observing site.. If the visibility in one direction which is not the prevailing visibility, is less than 1500 m or less than 50% of the prevailing visibility, the lowest visibility observed should be reported after the prevailing visibility and its general direction in relation to the aerodrome indicated by reference to one of the eight points of the compass. If the lowest visibility is observed in more than one direction, then the most operationally significant direction should be reported.. Visibility is recorded in metres rounded down to: the nearest 50 m when the visibility is less than 800 m;. the nearest 50 m when the visibility is less than 800 m;. the nearest 100 m when the visibility is 800 m or more but less than 5000 m; the nearest 1000 m when the visibility is 5000 m or more but less than 10 km.. the nearest 1000 m when the visibility is 5000 m or more but less than 10 km.. Visibility of more than 10 km is reported as 10 km. Minimum visibility is not reported if above 10 km.. The horizon circle is divided into as many sectors of equal visibility as needed to measure the differing visibilities.. Example of prevailing visibility measurement Prevailing visibility is the greatest visibility value which is reached within at least half the horizon circle or within at least half of the surface of the aerodrome; in the above example, the visibility value which is reached within at least half the horizon circle is 8 kilometres (the area covered by the 8km and 12km visibility sectors).. The lowest visibility is also reported in the METAR when it is less than 1500 metres (providing it is not the prevailing visibility) or less than 50% of the prevailing visibility, along with its general direction. In the above case, the lowest visibility (4 kilometres) is not reported, as it