OVC);. height in 100s of feet;. cloud type (Cb and TCu only).. Note: If no clouds are observed, "NSC" (no significant cloud) is used in METAR. If automated reporting systems are used, "NCD" (no cloud detected) is used instead of "NSC". Normally up to three cloud layers may be reported (although in certain circumstances more can be reported): the lowest layer, whatever the amount; the next layer above of amount 3 oktas or more (SCT, BKN or OVC); the next layer above of amount 5 oktas or more (BKN or OVC); any towering cumulus or cumulonimbus cloud omitted by the other rules, whilst retaining base height order from lowest to highest. If there is no cloud below 5000 ft or below the highest minimum sector altitude (whichever is greater) and there is no towering cumulus or cumulonimbus, ‘NSC’ is reported.. the lowest layer, whatever the amount;. the next layer above of amount 3 oktas or more (SCT, BKN or OVC);. the next layer above of amount 5 oktas or more (BKN or OVC);. any towering cumulus or cumulonimbus cloud omitted by the other rules, whilst retaining base height order from lowest to highest.. If there is no cloud below 5000 ft or below the highest minimum sector altitude (whichever is greater) and there is no towering cumulus or cumulonimbus, ‘NSC’ is reported.. The height of the cloud base is rounded down to the nearest hundred ft up to 10000 ft and to 1000 ft thereafter.. In reports to Air Traffic Services, cloud layers above 5000 ft should be omitted, but CB and TCU should always be reported whatever the height of the cloud base.. Two temperatures are given in the METAR; the outside air temperature and the dew point. The dew point is not measured directly from a thermometer; however it can be calculated from the dry bulb and wet bulb temperatures or the relative humidity. When the wet-bulb is frozen, the ice-bulb temperature is used to compute dew point.. The dry bulb and dew point temperatures are reported to the nearest whole degree Celsius (°C). A value of 0.5 degrees is rounded to the warmer temperature. In METAR, a two-digit figure for each temperature is given, preceded by ‘M’ if a temperature is negative.. The QNH is the atmospheric pressure corrected to mean sea level (based on International Standard Atmosphere conditions throughout the height difference) and is reported in the METAR rounded down to the nearest whole hectopascal.. Some aerodromes report the QNH pressure in the METAR in inches of mercury.. In reports to Air Traffic Services, aerodrome QNH, QFE and, if appropriate, threshold QFE(s) should be reported.. At aerodromes that have an instrument runway with a threshold elevation 7ft or more below the aerodrome elevation, a threshold QFE may need to be provided during periods that the runway is in use.. If a runway inspection is not possible, it is preferable to report changes by general assessment rather than let a clearly unrepresentative message be repeated, e.g.: if