is not less than 50% of the prevailing visibility.. Runway Visual Range (RVR) is a measure of the horizontal visibility along the runway. RVR assessments are made either by human observation (HORVR) or an Instrument RVR (IRVR). HORVR is usually only reported for the touchdown zone. IRVR systems may have sensors located at the touchdown zone, mid-point and stop end of each runway. For METAR purposes, only the touchdown zone measurement is given.. Where there is more than one runway available for landing, the touchdown zone RVR should be included for all of them (up to four).. For METAR reports the RVR should be based on the maximum light intensity available on the runway.. The RVR group is reported in the METAR only when either the minimum visibility or the runway visual range is observed to be less than 1500 m.. RVR is reported in metres, rounded down to: the nearest 25 m for RVR below 400 m; the nearest 50 m for RVR between 400 m and 800 m; the nearest 100 m for RVR above 800 m.. the nearest 25 m for RVR below 400 m;. the nearest 50 m for RVR between 400 m and 800 m;. the nearest 100 m for RVR above 800 m.. The minimum reportable RVR is 50 m and the maximum is 2000 m.. The RVR reported in METARs is the average taken over a ten minute period immediately preceding the time of the observation. In ATS, this period is 1 minute.. The report to ATS includes the RVR reading for the runway in use at the time of the observation. This data may be displayed at the observer’s workplace or may be provided by the ATS unit.. Entries of present weather only relate to weather occurring at the time of observation on or over the aerodrome. In the case of reporting phenomena in the vicinity of the aerodrome, it should be within 8 km of the Aerodrome Reference Point. Visual reference points, information from radar, pilot reports and automatic sensors may be used to assist in this determination.. Present weather groups consist of one or more pairs of letter abbreviations. A group is constructed by specifying: intensity (light, moderate, heavy, well developed); descriptor (e.g. shallow, patches, partial, low drifting, blowing, freezing, thunderstorm); phenomenon (e.g. rain, snow, fog, mist, hail, haze, volcanic ash, etc.).. intensity (light, moderate, heavy, well developed);. descriptor (e.g. shallow, patches, partial, low drifting, blowing, freezing, thunderstorm);. phenomenon (e.g. rain, snow, fog, mist, hail, haze, volcanic ash, etc.).. Up to three groups may be inserted to report simultaneously occurring independent phenomena. Where two different types of weather are observed, they should be reported in two separate groups. However, different types of precipitation occurring at the time of the observation should be reported as one single group with the dominant type of precipitation reported first.. Cloud coding includes: amount (FEW, SCT, BKN or OVC); height in 100s of feet; cloud type (Cb and TCu only).. amount (FEW, SCT, BKN or