snow is judged to be turning to slush; if it is apparent that snow depth has increased/decreased.. if snow is judged to be turning to slush;. if it is apparent that snow depth has increased/decreased.. Appropriate local arrangements should be in place to ensure that a runway state message is available to the observer in good time for insertion into the next METAR.. The depth of the deposit reported should be the average of the readings for the usable length of the runway.. In reports to Air Traffic Services, extra data of use to pilots may be reported in the form of ‘supplementary information’. This may include but is not limited to: Marked variations in visibility. Aircraft reports of severe turbulence and icing, but only after notification to the meteorological forecast office. Fog in the vicinity, with a direction to indicate the location, and patches or banks of fog with their location. Distance and direction of showers in the vicinity. Aircraft reports of wind shear. Significant meteorological conditions, particularly those in the approach and climb-out areas. These may include cumulonimbus clouds, thunderstorms, hail, severe squall lines, freezing precipitation, severe mountain waves and blowing snow.. Marked variations in visibility.. Aircraft reports of severe turbulence and icing, but only after notification to the meteorological forecast office.. Fog in the vicinity, with a direction to indicate the location, and patches or banks of fog with their location.. Distance and direction of showers in the vicinity.. Aircraft reports of wind shear.. Significant meteorological conditions, particularly those in the approach and climb-out areas. These may include cumulonimbus clouds, thunderstorms, hail, severe squall lines, freezing precipitation, severe mountain waves and blowing snow.. Where directions of phenomena are given, one of the eight main compass points should be used.. Supplementary information should not be used for relaying forecasts, e.g. ‘fog to the west’ may be used but ‘fog thickening’ may not..