This section contains the requirements for the weather elements to be put in weather reports (METAR and reports to the ATS units). Although they are mostly standardised worldwide, slight country-to-country variations are possible. Surface wind information for the METAR report should be taken from an anemometer located on the aerodrome. The anemometer should be sited in a suitable location to provide a representative measurement for the aerodrome.. The direction from which the surface wind is blowing is given in degrees from true North and the speed is usually given in knots.. The direction and speed reported are the averages taken over a ten minute period immediately preceding the time of the observation.. The maximum wind (gust) is reported only if it exceeds the mean speed by 10 knots or more.. Variations in wind direction are reported only when the total variation in direction is 60 degrees or more or but less than 180 degrees and the average wind speed is greater than 3 knots.. The mean wind direction is not included when the wind is reported as "variable": when wind speed is 3 knots or less; when the total variation in direction is 180 degrees or more; when it is not possible to report a mean direction e.g. when a thunderstorm passes over the aerodrome.. when wind speed is 3 knots or less;. when the total variation in direction is 180 degrees or more;. when it is not possible to report a mean direction e.g. when a thunderstorm passes over the aerodrome.. When the wind speed is less than 1 knot, this should be reported as calm.. It is recommended that averages of wind speed and variations in the wind direction and speed are generated by automatic equipment.. The direction mean and variations are rounded to the nearest 10 degrees in the METAR. Values ending with 5 are rounded down.. The mean speed and maximum speed are rounded to the nearest knot in the METAR and reported between 01 and 99 knots. Speeds exceeding 99 knots are coded as "P99".. The surface wind information provided should be representative of the conditions along the runway. Since, in practice, the surface wind cannot be measured directly on the runway, surface wind observations for take-off and landing should be sited to give the best practicable indication of conditions along the runway.. In reports to aircraft for take-off and landing, direction is to be expressed in degrees Magnetic, and the reading is averaged over the previous 2 minutes; in addition, the extremes in direction and speed (gust and lull) during the past 10 minutes should be provided. The instantaneous surface wind should be available to give to pilots on request.. Maximum (gust) and minimum (lull) wind speeds should be provided when the difference is 10 knots or more from the 2-minute mean wind speed.. Variations in wind direction should be reported when the total variation in direction over the previous ten-minute period is 60 degrees or more. Variations are reported in clockwise order (e.g.