the 3 second gust as a rolling average of the wind speed samples.. The average direction displayed should take regard of the numerical discontinuity at North.. Alternative anemometry, meeting the requirements and located on the aerodrome may be used as a backup to the wind information. Exceptionally, a hand-held anemometer may be used for a METAR report.. The pressure measuring equipment should be installed so that the measurements are suitable for the operational purpose and free of external influences.. The pressure sensor should be installed on the aerodrome, usually in a weatherproof facility (building, shelter, enclosure, etc.).. In automated systems a minimum of 2 collocated pressure sensors should be used with accuracy to within 0.5 hectopascals of each other.. For manual systems, a single, calibrated, barometer may be used for pressure measurement by an observer.. The sensor should provide an output with a minimum system resolution of 0.1 hPa. The measurement system should provide a pressure reading to an accuracy of within ±0.5 hectopascals.. Atmospheric pressure measuring equipment should be checked daily for signs of sensor drift by comparison with other pressure instrumentation on the aerodrome or other suitable location.. The temperature sensors should be mounted at a height of 1.25 to 2 m, above an earth or grass surface away from buildings and other structures likely to influence the reading.. The equipment should be capable of measurement to an accuracy better than plus or minus 1.0 degrees Celsius for air temperature and dew point.. Dew point should be displayed for temperatures below zero; frost point should not be displayed.. Temperature and dew point measurements should be measured to a resolution of 0.1 degrees Celsius.. Electronic sensors should be sampled at a minimum of once per minute.. Sensors used to measure cloud are considered to be an aid to an observer rather than a direct source of information for the METAR.. The equipment should be capable of measurement to the specified accuracy limits from the surface to 5000 ft above ground level.. The cloud base recorder should measure to a resolution of 100 ft.. The sensors should be sampled at a minimum of once per minute.. The sensors used to measure visibility are considered to be an aid to an observer rather than a direct source of information for the METAR.. The sensor is normally mounted on a mast at a height of approximately 2.5 m. The sensor should be located as far as practicable from other light sources that might affect the measurement.. The equipment should be capable of measurement to the specified accuracy limits to a range of 15 km.. The visibility measuring system shall measure to a resolution of 50 m.. The sensors should be sampled at a minimum of once per minute. An averaging period of 1 minute should be used for weather reports to ATS. An averaging period of 10 minutes for METAR reports should be used.. Unless further visibility measuring systems are available, the accredited observer should assess the visibility by eye.. The purpose