This section outlines the sensor and system requirements. Note that these may vary from country to country. Meteorological observing equipment should provide a timely and accurate source and display of meteorological information to aid in the safe and expeditious flow of civil air traffic.. The Aerodrome Meteorological Observing Service Provider should ensure the service continuity of observing equipment.. The equipment should be built, calibrated and re-calibrated in accordance with the relevant standards. Whenever possible, it should alert the user if a malfunction occurs.. Sensors should be positioned in such a manner that allows them to measure meteorological elements free of other influences e.g. jet-engine wash.. Equipment should be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions tested to confirm correct and reliable operation. The frequency of calibration checks, replacement and servicing intervals are based on manufacturers’ recommendations.. Routine care and maintenance must be scheduled to ensure that equipment continues to operate effectively within calibrated limits.. Atmospheric pressure measuring equipment should be checked daily for signs of sensor drift by comparison with other instrumentation on the aerodrome or readings from nearby aerodromes.. Maintenance activity that will render the equipment unable to provide (reliable) information should be scheduled at times during which the loss of data is not operationally significant (ideally outside aerodrome operating hours).. Sensor siting should not infringe the obstacle limitation surface or obstacle free zones.. The exposure of the sensor should minimise the effects of all obstructions. Sensors should be located as far as practicable from any source likely to significantly affect the quality of the data.. The display should present a clear and unambiguous indication of the operational status of the sensor system to the user.. Where possible, the equipment should be self-monitoring and provide an indication of its status. Where equipment is not self-monitoring, a failure of the equipment should be obvious.. The wind sensor display should indicate whether the direction is referenced to True North or Magnetic North.. On aerodromes with more than one wind sensor, the display should clearly indicate the sensor or location from which the information is derived.. Equipment used to provide dynamic meteorological information solely to the Meteorological Observer should be refreshed and updated at regular intervals.. Appropriate contingency arrangements should be in place in the event that any display or display system fails.. Wind sensors should be positioned to represent the wind flow at 10 m above the surface.. The wind speed and direction measuring equipment should provide an accurate and representative measurement of wind speed and direction (with respect to True North).. The wind speed measurement should be to an accuracy of within plus or minus 1 knot, or plus or minus 10 per cent for wind speeds in excess of 10 knots, of the actual wind speed.. With wind speeds in excess of 2 knots, the wind direction system should be capable of producing an overall accuracy better than plus or minus 10 degrees.. The sensor should be sampled at a minimum rate of four times per second and calculate