that relevant information was passed to ATC, it was not then shared with the airport RFFS. Airport management did not call in additional rescue personnel until after boarding the aircraft on arrival and recognising the extent of the task. Once the airport RFFS had recognised the scale and nature of medical assistance required, their communication of a large number of casualties and the nature of the medical assistance to the regional rescue coordination centre was not acted upon. As a result, it was over an hour after the aircraft arrival before sufficient rescue personnel were on site to respond to the situation in a structured manner and in particular to begin the medical classification of the injured passengers. Specialist (ear nose and throat) medical expertise was required in order to make final assessments of their condition and appropriate response. Once this was clear, there were no local hospitals with such expertise and so it “became necessary to transport passengers to hospitals which were up to (the equivalent of) 60 miles away”. It was also found that the aircraft operator’s Operations Control Centre was not kept properly informed by “the responsible Airport Ground Operations Manager” who had been tasked to do this but had only passed on “incomplete information” infrequently. Had this communication task been done properly, it was considered that the aircraft operator would have been able to contribute to a more timely and optimised response to the situation presented upon the flight’s arrival. Finally, the Investigation noted that the airport’s ICAO standard emergency response plan was not applied (or applicable) “because there was no occurrence scenario with large quantities of injured persons without the simultaneous aircraft accident on airport operating areas”. The formally-stated Cause of the investigated event was recorded as an abnormal command by the aircraft Environmental Control System to fully open the Outflow Valve during cruise flight at FL 370 because of a ‘Single Event Upset’ in the active Cabin Pressure Controller. Safety Action in response to the event was noted to have included the following: Ryanair modified its recurrent simulator training for pilots so that the use and interpretation of the indications of the ECS Digital Selector Panels were more effectively covered. In addition, a training scenario was implemented in the recurrent training programme in which the pressurised cabin re-pressurises during the subsequent emergency descent requiring the flight crew to react accordingly. Hahn Airport staff in conjunction with staff of the local health care provider re-enacted the event scenario during an ICAO emergency training exercise in May 2019. This focussed, among other things, on patient classification, mission documentation and patient transport. Measures were then implemented to optimise the emergency response should a similar occurrence happen again. The Final Report was completed on 17 June 2022 and published online in August 2022. In the light of the recorded response to the event by both the aircraft operator and in respect of the emergency response arrangements at the diversion airport, no Safety Recommendations were deemed necessary. Related Articles