On being promptly advised of the event, the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (BFU) sent an “external expert in field investigation” to Hahn Airport and the following morning two BFU employees also arrived there. Once it was realised that the event had occurred in French airspace, the French Bureau d’Enquêtes et d´Analyses (BEA) was notified and formally delegated the Serious Incident Investigation to the BFU. The CVR and FDR were both removed and their data were successfully downloaded. The QAR was also available and both cabin pressure controllers were removed from the aircraft and read out at the OEMs facilities in the presence of a BFU representative. The 29 year-old Captain, who had been acting as PF when the event occurred, was a UK citizen with a total of 4,867 hours flying experience, all but 220 hours of which had been on type. The 36 year-old First Officer was a Croatian citizen with a total of 2,447 hours flying experience, all but 203 hours of which had been on type. It was noted that the two pilots had worked together on all their flights on the day of the event as well as on the previous two days. Recorded flight data showed that with the aircraft level at FL 370 and tracking south east and the cabin altitude showing 7,925 feet, the OFV began to move over a nine second period from the 18° open position to fully open (104°) without any input from the fight crew. The crew noticed a drop in cabin pressure after 4 seconds and the Cabin Altitude Warning was annunciated two seconds later as the cabin pressure altitude reached a recorded 9,470 feet. Both pilots reported that the pressure drop had resulted in them having “significant hearing problems” and had seen at that time that the indicated cabin pressure was increasing at a rate of more than 4,000 fpm. They were unable to recall the indicated position of the OFV or the status of the system auto fail and alternate lights. At a cabin pressure altitude of 13,153 feet, ten seconds after the OFV had begun to open, the pressure switch was triggered and the OFV then began to close automatically with a speed of about 19° per second until it reached an opening angle of 18°. At this point, both pilots had donned their oxygen masks and begun to complete the memory items for a rapid decompression. They reported that making system status changes became temporarily more difficult than expected because their masks were partially misted over and there was initially no verbal communication. At the same time the cabin altitude warning sounded and over a period of approximately 25 seconds, the position of the OFV then oscillated between 18° and 28° open four times as the cabin altitude increased to a recorded 14,639 feet. Half a minute after the OFV had begun to open, the First Officer switched the OFV control to manual and proceeded to set it to 9.3° open