and the OFV position. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The aircraft/cabin altitudes compared with the cabin differential pressure [Reproduced from the Official Report] Recorded flight data showed that it was a false signal from the active CPC2 which had caused the un-commanded opening of the OPV which had led to the initial depressurisation of the aircraft. The component OEM was able to show that the CPC2 had been subject to a transient fault identified as a ‘Single Event Upset’ (SEU) which had affected the normal functioning of its semi conductor components. It was stated by the OEM that such faults are very rare (one occurrence per 28.4 million flight hours) and do not result in any detectable damage to the equipment concerned. They also concluded that only “2.7% of all rapid decompression occurrences were the result of CPC malfunctions caused by a SEU”. Such rarity meant that aircraft type certification requirements for reliability were comfortably met and the manual control option if correctly used provides a means for a crew to manage pressurisation if the normal automated control fails. Of course, the crew must do this by managing the achieved cabin altitude based on regular reference to the available display of it. As a context for the mismanagement of manual pressurisation beyond the fact that it occurred at night and that at first condensation on the pilots’ oxygen masks had impeded their vision, the Investigation considered that the position and design of the Cabin Pressure Control panel (see the illustration below) made it relatively difficult for pilots to correctly recognise the indications provided. It was also observed that the pointer of the (analogue) cabin altitude indicator did not have zero dead stop. This meant that if, as happened, the cabin is operated with positive pressure i.e. is below sea level, then the pointer will move counter clockwise towards/into the other end of the scale which represents high cabin altitudes. It was considered that although aircraft are not often intentionally operated with cabin altitudes below sea level, the indication provided “should not allow any misinterpretation”. The cabin altitude indication panel. [Reproduced from the Official Report The absence of any aural or visual alerting of “abnormal configurations of the pressurised cabin” which could usefully have been linked to a fully open OFV during cruise flight, a cabin altitude below sea level during descent and cabin differential pressure at maximum was noted. Without such alerting, it was considered that detection of these conditions during a depressurisation event would be dependent on pilots’ active attention at a time when they are likely to be busy. The response to the arrival of the diverted flight at Hahn in respect of the treatment of those on board was reviewed and overall was considered to have been poorly performed by both the Airport and other agencies involved. No indication of the extent to which aircraft occupants might need medical assistance was communicated to the flight crew and could therefore not be passed to ATC. To the extent