which stabilised the cabin altitude. The Captain then made a PA address consisting of “Emergency Descent” and repeated it twice before immediately initiating this decent. The First Officer then made a MAYDAY call announcing the emergency descent to Reims ACC and the intention to continue it until reaching FL100. A minute after the emergency descent had begun, the OFV was manually closed completely and over the next 12 minutes the cabin altitude decreased at a maximum of 3,300 fpm. Shortly after this, ATC instructed the flight to turn left onto a heading of 050° and asked about the crew’s intentions. They confirmed their intention to continue to F100 and requested a MSA relevant to the new heading and subsequently had a request to descend to 9000 feet approved. Just over three minutes after the emergency descent had begun, the First Officer reached and actioned items 3 and 4 of the ‘Cabin Altitude Warning or Rapid Decompression’ Checklist: which respectively required the selection of manual pressurisation control and holding the OFV switch at the ‘CLOSE’ position until the valve indicated fully closed. The flight was then transferred to Langen Radar where the controller was advised of the crew intention to divert to Frankfurt. As the aircraft descended through FL 190, the (indicated and actual) cabin altitude passed below mean sea level but when the aircraft subsequently passed FL 100, the Captain was recorded saying that the cabin altitude was 24 000 feet and “coming down slowly......basically, I’m not too sure why we had this depressurisation”. The Captain instructed the First Officer to take over as PF and then added “now it says the cabin altitude is climbing - it says 33,000 feet......what we have to do is open the valve completely......to depressurise.” On levelling at FL090, the cabin altitude was actually about 7,000 feet below sea level with the maximum cabin differential pressure at this time 8.72 psi with both Pressure Relief Valves in the open position. As a result of the Captain then opening the OFV completely, the cabin altitude immediately increased at a maximum rate of about 20,000 fpm to reach same altitude as the aircraft. Both pilots then removed their oxygen masks. Shortly after this, the SCCM called on the interphone from the cabin and advised that both the cabin crew and passengers were using oxygen masks and that everyone was “more or less okay”. The Captain then conducted a NITS briefing with the SCCM during which he was told that one of the cabin crew at the rear of the cabin had reported a loud hissing sound and on asking if am emergency evacuation would be necessary after landing was assured that this would not be necessary. The Captain then advised ATC that he was downgrading the flight status from MAYDAY to PAN and, after requesting and receiving the weather conditions at Frankfurt Hahn airport and confirmation that it would be open, advised that he wished to divert the flight to that airport rather than Frankfurt am