Main as previously requested and this was approved. He explained to the First Officer that since Hahn was a Ryanair maintenance base and it appeared that a malfunction of the OFV had caused the depressurisation, it made sense to divert there. Having been advised that there was one passenger whose ear was bleeding, he then asked ATC to communicate a request to Hahn for an ambulance to meet the aircraft on arrival which was done. The flight ground track following the initial sudden pressurisation loss and diversion to Hahn. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the aircraft continued towards Hahn, the Captain was recorded noting that the OFV was “now completely open... very strange because cabin altitude reached over 30,000 feet” to which the First Officer responded with “I know, how did that happen?”. The approach to runway 03 at Hahn was without further event and the aircraft landed there 35 minutes after the sudden depressurisation had occurred. The Investigation was “unable to determine the final number of injured persons because different sources reported different numbers”. Airport RFFS personnel documented 15 patients as treated on site and another 28 taken by rescue vehicles to four different hospitals. The final Police report of the event stated that the total number of injured people was 33. To the extent that facts could be determined, it appeared that nobody suffered a ruptured eardrum and it appeared that all passengers taken to hospitals were treated as Accident and Emergency Outpatients. Automatic control of the position of the OFV is achieved by Cabin Pressure Controllers (CPC) which detect actual cabin pressure. Two CPCs are installed with one actively controlling the OFV position and the other remaining on standby for each flight with the active controller changing between successive flights. The active controller in this case was CPC2 and it was a malfunction of this controller which caused the initial decompression. Closing the OFV manually allowed the cabin pressure to increase but when the emergency descent was conducted, the OFV remained closed rather than its position being managed as required. The Emergency Descent Checklist ‘Deferred Items’ included one on manually controlling cabin altitude during the descent by “moving the OFV switch to OPEN or CLOSE as needed to control cabin altitude and rate” but this was ignored. On completion of the descent, the Captain then inadvertently created the second and more rapid depressurisation event by manually moving the OPV position from fully closed to fully open. This action appeared to have initially focussed on the cabin rate of change indication rather than the indicated cabin altitude whereas reference to the latter was essential to achieve manual pressurisation control. It was concluded that passenger injuries had most likely been caused by the extended re-pressurisation phase between the two decompressions. The following two illustrations compare the cabin and aircraft altitudes with the cabin pressure rate of change, the position of the OFV and the cabin differential pressure. The aircraft/cabin altitudes compared with the cabin pressure rate of change