accident had transferred from Khartoum ACC to TWR one month previously without receiving any briefing or refresher training. The Causes of the Accident were determined to have been as follows: ‘Major Factors’: Insufficient wingtip clearance between (the parallel taxiway) and (the gate on which the A340 was parked).. The absence of marshallers during (the A330) engines start up and taxi-out.. ‘Contributing Factors’: Instructions by aerodrome control tower to KLM A330 to taxi via (the full length of the parallel) taxiway A for runway 18.. Non-standard construction of aircraft stands.. Non distribution of information regarding liability of wing-tip clearance to all concerned.. Limited and narrow width of (the apron area on which the A340 was parked). Eight Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: Approved Safety Management System for Khartoum Airport is highly recommended.. All apron aircraft stands specifications should be according to ICAO requirements taking into consideration the types of aircraft that could use them.. Special procedures should be published reflecting the non-conformities to ICAO Standards in respect to taxiways and parking restrictions and circularised to all stakeholders.. Aerodrome tower controllers should have refresher training before exercising their duties whenever they have been working away from that position for a considerable period of time.. Utilisation of apron 2.. Review the training of personnel responsible for providing marshalling guidance on the apron, to ensure that pilots are provided with safe and appropriate signals.. Review the coordination between ATC and apron marshallers, to ensure that clear guidelines and responsibilities are drawn between the two departments, in relation to aircraft operating in the apron.. Review the apron design at Khartoum Airport, with a view to redesign of stands that are suitable for the safe parking and general handling of widebody aircraft. Such stands will provide adequate clearance from other aircraft so as not to impede the traffic movement.. The UAE GCAA made a detailed submission in response to sight of the initial draft of the Final Report and this and the response to it by the Sudan DGCA AAICD are included as Attachments ‘A’ and ‘B’ to the released version of the Final Report of the Investigation Ref:-CAAIACC/A6-ERE IPH-AODI12.