The Accident was notified to the Sudan DGCA Air Accident Investigation Central Directorate (AAICD) and an Investigation was then carried out by a Board of Investigation formed for the purpose by the Sudan DGCA. Recorded flight data was not available to assist the Investigation. Damage to the A330 was found to have been limited to the left winglet but damage to the A340 was found to extend to: the left hand stabiliser.. the aft fuselage lower frame.. the APU inlet splitter.. the APU fire bottle compartment access door.. the right hand stabiliser.. It was established that the A330 had carried out pushback from the gate prior to the accident without the presence of any marshaller which was not permitted under airport regulations. It was also found that marked centreline of the taxiway being used by the A330 when it passed behind the parked A340 was not in the centre of the taxiway. The distance from the marked centreline to the taxiway edge nearest the runway was found to be 15.55 metres whereas the distance to the edge nearest the parking stands adjacent to the opposite side was 11.50 metres. The distance between the taxiway centreline and aft edge of the A340 was found to have been 22.25m with the impact position on the A340 a further half metre beyond this. Since the wingspan of the A330 involved was 60.3 metres, it was apparent that the aircraft had been taxiing approximately 5 metres to the right of the marked taxiway centreline indicating that “the pilot has identified the potential hazard of wingtip collision and turned right in an attempt to increase the space between his aircraft and the parked (A340).” It was noted that, in the absence of any stop markings on the stand used, the A340 had been marshalled to a parking position in which the nose of the aircraft was 4.6m from the edge of the adjacent service road. It was also noted that both wingtips of the aircraft extended significantly beyond the marked limits of the stand. It was observed that both stand and taxiway measurements and the use / non use of surface markings indicated that the applicable provisions contained in ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1 had not been satisfied in respect of safe clearances on either the taxiway or parking stands for the aircraft involved. However, the Investigation noted that “the parallel taxiway along which the A330 was cleared to taxi was not approved for use by wide bodied aircraft when adjacent parking stands are occupied and in these circumstances, it is necessary for aircraft to enter the runway at an earlier point and backtrack the runway to reach the required take off position. However, it was found that there was a “lack of clear instructions” to this effect and that “although this hazard was known (it was) not being mitigated by Notice To Airmen or Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS)”. Finally, it was established that the TWR ATCO on duty at the time of the