A Field Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). It was triggered by the A320 Captain’s Safety Report as both the Airport Operator and their ANSP, having investigated the concerns recorded in the Safety Report internally, had concluded that the actions of the vehicle driver and the controller had been, respectively, in accordance with the applicable runway inspection and ATC procedures. It was noted that the reporting 46 year-old Captain had a total of 12,000 hours flying experience which included 8,800 on type. It was established that at the time the aircraft touched down on runway 26L, an airport operations runway inspection vehicle identified to ATC as “Leader 6” with two personnel on board was waiting at Holding Point G1 towards the end of Runway 26L for permission to carry out a routine runway inspection. About 12 seconds after the aircraft had touched down on a wet runway in light rain with a small tailwind component and whilst it was decelerating on the runway, the TWR controller asked the crew whether they “were making ‘Foxtrot Romeo’” (a RET approximately two thirds of the way along the 3,012 metre-long LDA following the displaced landing threshold). The crew response was that they were intending to “make the second one” by which they meant ‘Foxtrot Romeo’ which was the second of two RETs available, the first being about halfway down the runway. The controller then responded with “thank you that’s Foxtrot Romeo break, Leader 6 enter 26Left at Golf vacate behind the Aer Lingus at Foxtrot Romeo” which was duly acknowledged. The access Golf is approximately 360 metres beyond the RET Foxtrot Romeo. The aircraft was “still on the runway at a reported speed of about 60 knots” and approaching RET Foxtrot Romeo when the crew observed a vehicle entering the runway ahead and travelling towards the aircraft. The aircraft vacated as anticipated on the Foxtrot Romeo RET and changed to GND “whilst Leader 6, having driven along the runway, then also vacated at RET Foxtrot Romeo”. The Captain subsequently stated that he had “been surprised to see the vehicle entering the runway and believed the vehicle’s clearance had been conditional on the aircraft vacating first” so he had submitted a safety report. Because the Captain had advised that he would be submitting a safety report, the ANSP conducted its own investigation during which the occupants of the vehicle involved stated that the aircraft Captain had told them that he had been “concerned that after he had landed he could see a vehicle on the runway (and that) due to the wet weather he could have missed the (anticipated) exit”. This ATC internal investigation concluded that the clearance given to the inspection vehicle had been in accordance with prevailing ATC SOPs and that there were consequently “no issues with the runway inspection process at Gatwick in general, or with this particular event”. The AAIB was subsequently told (although this was not in the ANSP Report) that the controller