involved “had considered that, as a result of the transmissions after touchdown, the aircraft’s landing clearance had been amended for it to vacate the runway at RET Foxtrot Romeo” which in his opinion meant that “the aircraft was not now cleared beyond the RET”. However, the manager qualified this view by saying that “the transmissions had not contained the necessary phraseology for the clearance to have been effective, nor for the pilot to have understood that the vehicle would be appearing ahead of the aircraft”. Following the incident, the Head of Airside Operations issued a verbal instruction that “operations vehicles were not to enter the runway ahead of a landing aircraft, regardless of their clearance, unless the aircraft was seen to be fully committed to vacating the runway”. However, a subsequent report on the incident completed by that department “largely reflected the ATC report with the ‘root cause’ section only quoting the ATC report findings” and coming to the same conclusions and closing the investigation, although it then continued with an additional section called “Preventative and Corrective Measures” in which it stated that “a joint review of inspection procedures between airside operations and the ATC services provider would be conducted, to explore potential opportunities for improvements to the safety and efficiency of runway inspections”. An initial meeting to start this ‘joint review’ was in April 2018 and it was agreed that the airside operations team would in future “provide 15 minutes notice to ATC before attempting to commence a normal runway inspection” and it was agreed that further meetings would be held monthly. One did take place in May but the only other one in 2018 was held in September. However, none of the issues discussed at these meetings related directly to the potential risk perceived by the reporting Captain. Prior to EASA regulatory powers being extended to airports in 2014, UK national requirements had been for four inspections per day but although this was reduced to two per day by EASA, the airport elected to continue with four inspections per day. It was noted that additional information on inspections to that contained in the Aerodrome Manual was contained in a SOP published by the airport’s Standards Department but only covered runway 08R/26L and did not include any instructions on whether inspections on active runways should take place with or against the traffic flow. It was noted that because Gatwick depended on high intensity use of their single runway to be able to reach their (self-declared) traffic capacity, it was often necessary to conduct inspections in stages rather than as a single 3 minute non-stop run at the maximum permitted speed of 40 mph. It was noted that the declared single runway traffic capacity at Gatwick was 55 movements per hour “with plans to increase this further”. As a result of the runway inspection review, the ANSP published a Temporary Operating Instruction (TOI) effective from 23 July 2018 which amplified the relevant content of the MATS (airport-specific) Part 2. This