did not add much of direct significance to managing the risk of vehicle/aircraft conflict and did not detail the direction of inspection runs relative to the runway direction of use. However, it did state that if an inspection run was done in sections, then the final section may be done against the flow of traffic in which case, “vacating aircraft must be notified about the against traffic inspection plan and must clearly be established in the turn off the runway-centreline into the runway exit before the ops vehicle is instructed to enter the runway”. It was noted that the “hazard analysis and risk assessment” which was conducted as part of the process of producing this TOI had identified “a vehicle entering the runway ahead of an aircraft before the aircraft was established on a turn into a runway exit” as a hazard, but that on the basis of the frequency and potential severity of such events, this hazard was “deemed acceptable to ATC”. This analysis “did not consider the implications of an aircraft failing to exit the runway at its stated or cleared exit point, for whatever reason, and continuing on the remaining runway". This TOI was adopted as a ‘Supplementary Instruction’ with effect from 1 December 2018 with the intention that it would be added to the MATS Part 2 when that publication was next revised. It was found that in the twelve months prior to the event being investigated, three other runway incursion events involving vehicles had been recorded, one of which in November 2017 had involved a runway lighting inspection and had involved an operations vehicle being on the upwind runway threshold as an aircraft had touched down. It was found that the subsequent internal incident report produced by the airport operations department had highlighted issues including inspection runs “being done at excessive speed (in excess of 70 mph), poor communications between the airport operations staff and ATC and ATC clearances including phrases such as ‘as fast as possible’ and ‘as quick as you can’”. This report found that the immediate cause of the incident had been the inspection being performed “with the next arrival in mind rather than the task at hand”. It also recommended “a review of the way runway lighting inspections were performed and a review of the risk assessments for all runway inspections and operations”, neither of which had been completed prior to the occurrence of the 3 February 2018 event. The effectiveness of CAA regulatory oversight at Gatwick in respect of operational safety risk was reviewed by the Investigation and evidence was found that it was likely to have been compromised by a high Inspector workload. The reliance of busy Inspectors unable to attend relevant meetings at the airport on staying abreast of issues by “receiving and reviewing copies of the relevant meeting minutes” was found to be problematic since “the standard of the minutes did not always allow a proper understanding of the items discussed or the outcomes agreed”. It was