An intersection take off is a take off that starts at a position different than the beginning of a runway. This means that some of the runway will not be available for the take off run. Benefits associated with intersection take offs include: runway capacity improvement. reduced taxi time. noise alleviation. air pollution reduction. An aircraft may be cleared to depart from a published intersection take off position upon request of the pilot, or if initiated by ATC and accepted by the pilot, provided that all the applicable requirements are met. These may include: Time of day (e.g. intersection take offs may only be allowed during daytime). Visibility (i.e. intersection take offs are only to be performed when the visibility is above certain value). Location (i.e. intersection take offs may only be performed from certain positions on the runway). The process of establishing intersection take off procedures normally includes consultation with aircraft operators and other stakeholders in order to agree on suitable intermediate intersection take-off positions along the runway(s). After that, the reduced runway declared distances are determined and appropriate procedures are established. These are then published in the State Aeronautical Information Publications (AIPs) in a way that makes them clearly distinguishable from full runway declared distances. In accordance with ICAO Annex 14, an intersection take-off sign should be provided when there is an operational need to indicate the remaining take-off run available (TORA) for intersection take offs. The inscription on this take-off consists of a numerical message indicating the remaining take-off run available in metres plus an arrow, appropriately located and oriented, indicating the direction of the take-off as shown on the picture below. The choice between a full-length and an intersection take off is an aspect of the decision making process. While the controller may offer (or approve) an intersection departure it is the responsibility of the pilot in command to assess whether this is a safe option and, if not, to decline the ATC proposal. The potential benefits (e.g. flight efficiency) needs to be balanced against the potential risks, e.g.: a Runway Incursion may occur if the controller forgets (e.g. due to distraction) that two or more aircraft are cleared to enter the same runway via different intersections.. a Runway Excursion following an aborted take-off (e.g. due to engine failure) is more likely to happen when an intersection is used.. the margin for error (e.g. in calculating the necessary thrust setting) is reduced. a Reduced Thrust Takeoff, originally calculated for a full-length run, may be inappropriate for an intersection departure. intersection line ups provide fewer visual ques therefore increasing the chance of a Runway Misalignment or a taxiway take off. wake turbulence. The effects of wake turbulence start at the point where the preceding aircraft rotates so if an intersection departure is used, it is more likely that the rotation will take place at the same place or further down the runway (since the larger aircraft probably started the take off roll at the beginning of the